article_id	title	source_id	source	from	to	keywords	author_no	1st_author	date	no_refs	abstract
acm721078	An Operator Interaction Framework for Visualization Systems	acm647341	Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	63	70	information visualization, operators, user interactions,view/value, framework, spreadsheet, design, extensibility, visualization systems	2	P74503	10-19-1998	31	Information visualization encounters a wide variety of different data domains. The visualization community has developed representation methods and interactive techniques. As a community, we have realized that the requirements in each domain are often dramatically different. In order to easily apply existing methods, researchers have developed a semiology of graphic representations. We have extended this research into a framework that includes operators and interactions in visualization systems, such as a visualization spreadsheet. We discuss properties of this framework and use it to characterize operations spanning a variety of different visualization techniques. The framework developed in this paper enables a new way of exploring and evaluating the design space of visualization operators, and helps end--users in their analysis tasks.
acm721080	IVORY - An Object-Oriented Framework for Physics-Based Information Visualization in Java	acm647341	Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	79	86	three-dimensional information visualization, physics-based graph layout, object-oriented visualization toolkit, multidimensional information modeling, time varying data	4	P317481	10-19-1998	13	We present IVORY, a newly developed, platform-independent framework for physics-based visualization. IVORY is especially designed for information visualization applications and multidimensional graph layout. It is fully implemented in Java 1.1 and its architecture features client-server setup, which allows to run the visualization even on thin clients. In addition, VRML 2.0 exports can be viewed by any VRML plugged-in WWW-browser. Individual visual metaphors are invoked into IVORY via an advanced plug-in mechanism, where plug-ins can be implemented by any experienced user. The configuration of IVORY is accomplished using a script language, called IVML. Some interactive visualization examples, such as the integration of an haptic interface illustrate the performance and versatility of our system. Our current implementation supports NT 4.0
acm721083	The Shape of Shakespeare: Visualizing Text using Implicit Surfaces	acm647341	Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	121	129	blobby models, document clustering, graphics, implicit surface modeling, information retrieval, information visualization, procedural visualization, text visualization, user interfaces	3	P422521	10-19-1998	23	Information visualization focuses on the use of visual means for exploring non-visual information. While free-form text is a rich, common source of information, visualization of text is a challenging problem since text is inherently non-spatial. This paper explores the use of implicit surface models for visualizing text. We describe several techniques for text visualization that aid in understanding document content and document relationships. A simple method is defined for mapping document content to shape. By comparing the shapes of multiple documents, global content similarities and differences may be noted. In addition, we describe a visual clustering method in which documents are arranged in 3D based upon similarity scoring. Documents deemed closely related blend together as a single connected shape. Hence, a document corpus becomes a collection of shapes that reflect inter-document relationships. These techniques provide methods to visualize individual documents as well as corpus meta-data. We then combine the two techniques to produce transparent clusters enclosing individual document shapes. This provides a way to visualize both local and global contextual information. Finally, we elaborate on several potential applications of these methods.
acm721210	Dynamic Aggregation with Circular Visual Designs	acm647341	Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	35	43	null	1	P195636	10-19-1998	12	One very effective method for managing large data sets is aggregation or binning. In this paper we consider two aggregation methods that are tightly coupled with interactive manipulation and the visual representation of the data. Through this integration we hope to provide effective support for the aggregation process, specifically by enabling: 1) automatic aggregation, 2) continuous change and control of the aggregation level, 3) spatially based aggregates, 4) context maintenance across different aggregate levels, and 5) feedback on the level of aggregation.
acm721213	Comparative Visualization of Protein Structure-Sequence Alignments	acm647341	Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	106	null	proteins, structure, alignment, fold recognition, threading, similarity, glyphs, streamlines, ribbons, amino acids	3	P477708	10-19-1998	15	Protein fold recognition (threading) involves the prediction of a protein's three-dimensional shape based on its similarity to a protein whose structure is known. Fold predictions are low resolution; no effort is made to rotate the protein's component amino acid side chains into their correct spatial orientations. Rather, the goal is to recognize the protein family member that most closely resembles the target sequence of unknown structure and to create a sensible alignment of the target to the structure (i.e., a structure-sequence alignment). To complement this structure prediction method we have implemented a low resolution molecular graphics tool. Since amino acid side chain orientation is not relevant in fold recognition, amino acid residues are represented by abstract shapes or glyphs much like Lego (tm) blocks. We also borrow techniques from comparative streamline visualization to provide clean depictions of the entire protein structure model. By creating a low resolution representation of protein structure, we are able to approximately double the amount of information on the screen. This implementation also possesses the advantage of eliminating distracting and possibly misleading visual clutter resulting from the mapping of protein alignment information onto a high resolution display of a known structure.
acm721216	Similarity Clustering of Dimensions for an Enhanced Visualization of Multidimensional Data	acm647341	Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	52	null	null	3	P200206	10-19-1998	28	The order and arrangement of dimensions (variates) is crucial for the effectiveness of a large number of visualization techniques such as parallel coordinates, scatterplots, recursive pattern, and many others. In this paper, we describe a systematic approach to arrange the dimensions according to their similarity. The basic idea is to rearrange the data dimensions such that dimensions showing a similar behavior are positioned next to each other. For the similarity clustering of dimensions we need to define similarity measures which determine the partial or global similarity of dimensions. We then consider the problem of finding an optimal one- or two-dimensional arrangement of the dimensions based on their similarity. Theoretical considerations show that both, the one- and the two-dimensional arrangement problem are surprisingly hard problems, i.e. they are NP-complete. Our solution of the problem is therefore based on heuristic algorithms. An empirical evaluation using a number of different visualization techniques shows the high impact of our similarity clustering of dimensions on the visualization results.
acm721217	Algorithm Visualization For Distributed Environments	acm647341	Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	71	78	Algorithm visualization, Algorithm animation, Distributed algorithms	4	P306422	10-19-1998	27	This paper investigates the visualization of distributed algorithms. We present a conceptual model and a system, VADE, that realizes this model. Since in asynchronous distributed systems there is no way of knowing (let alone, visualizing) the ``real'' execution, we show how to generate a visualization which is consistent with the execution of the distributed algorithm. We also present the design and implementation of our system. VADE is designed so that the algorithm runs on the server's machines while the visualization is executed on a web page on the client's machine. Programmers can write animations quickly and easily with the assistance of VADE's libraries.
acm721218	Visualizing Decision Table Classifiers	acm647341	Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	102	105	classifier, decision table, dimensional stacking, trellis displays, relational data, data mining	1	P27937	10-19-1998	12	Decision tables, like decision trees or neural nets, are classification models used for prediction. They are induced by machine learning algorithms. A decision table consists of a hierarchical table in which each entry in a higher level table gets broken down by the values of a pair of additional attributes to form another table. The structure is similar to dimensional stacking. Presented here is a visualization method that allows a model based on many attributes to be understood even by those unfamiliar with machine learning. Various forms of interaction are used to make this visualization more useful than other static designs.
acm760271	Reconfigurable Disc Trees for Visualizing Large Hierarchical Information Space	acm647341	Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	19	25	Information visualization, disc tree,compact disc tree, plane disc tree, hierarchy	2	P414344	10-19-1998	8	We present a new visualization technique, called RDT (Reconfigurable Disc Tree) which can alleviate the disadvantages of cone trees significantly for large hierarchies while maintaining its context of using 3D depth. In RDT, each node is associated with a disc around which its children are placed. Using discs instead of cones as the basic shape in RDT has several advantages: significant reduction of occluded region, sharp increase in number of displayed nodes, and easy projection onto plane without visual overlapping. We show that RDT can greatly enhance user perception by transforming its shapes dynamically in several ways:(1) disc tree which can significantly reduce the occluded region by the foreground objects, (2) compact disc tree which can increase the number of nodes displayed on the screen, and (3) plane disc tree which can be mapped onto the plane without visual overlapping. We describe an implementation of our visualization system called VISIT (Visual Information System for reconfigurable dIsc Tree). It provides 2D and 3D layouts for RDT and various user interface features such as tree reconfiguration, tree transformation, tree shading, viewing transformation, animation, selection and browsing which can enhance the user perception and navigation capabilities. We also evaluate our system using the following three metrics: percentage of occlusion, density of displayed nodes on a screen. number of identifiable nodes.
acm857576	IVEE: an Information Visualization and Exploration Environment	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	66	null	HTML file, IVEE, Information Visualization and Exploration Environment, alphasliders, arbitrary graphical objects, automatic dynamic query creation, computer animation, data visualisation, database objects, database relations, details-on-demand retrieval, maps, multimedia computing, multimedia information, multiple IVEE clients, multiple query devices, multiple visualizations, network, query devices, query formulation, query processing, sliders, starfields, toggles, user actions, workstations	2	P572973	10-30-1995	27	The Information Visualization and Exploration Environment (NEE) is a system for automatic creation of dynamic queries applications. IVEE imports database relations and automatically creates environments holding visualizations and query devices. IVEE offers multiple visualizations such as maps and starfields, and multiple query devices, such as sliders, alphasliders, and toggles. Arbitrary graphical objects can be attached to database objects in visualizations. Multiple visualizations may be active simultaneously. Users can interactively lay out and change between types of query devices. Users may retrieve details-on-demand by clicking on visualization objects. An HTML file may be provided along with the database, specifying how details-on-demand information should be presented, allowing for presentation of multimedia information in database objects. Finally, multiple IVEE clients running on separate workstations on a network can communicate by letting one user's actions affect the visualization in an another IVEE client.
acm857577	SDM: malleable information graphics	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	36	null	SDM, data visualisation, direct manipulation, graphical user interfaces, information analysis tasks, interactive systems, interactive techniques, malleable information graphics, object set selection, selective dynamic manipulation, user action, visualizations	4	P573257	10-30-1995	16	Selective dynamic manipulation (SDM) is a paradigm for interacting with objects in visualizations. Its methods offer a high degree of selectivity, in choosing object sets, in the selection of interactive techniques and the properties they affect, and in the degree to which a user action affects the visualization. Our goal is to provide a flexible set of techniques and feedback mechanisms that enable users to move objects and transform their appearance to perform a variety of information analysis tasks.
acm857578	VRMosaic: WEB access from within a virtual environment	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	59	null	RealEyes, VR-capable Interviews, VRMosaic, Web access, computer displays, data visualisation, detailed geometry display, first person perspective, flat screen Mosaic, frame rates, fully immersive VR system, information networks, large-scale geometry display, nongeometric data, nongeometric information, virtual environment, virtual reality	2	P113687	10-30-1995	13	Virtual reality can aid in designing large and complex structures such as ships, skyscrapers, factories, and aircraft. But before VR can realize this potential, we need to solve a number of problems. One of these problems: the user's need to see and interact with non-geometric information is examined. Our VR environment, RealEyes, can display large-scale and detailed geometry at reasonable frame rates (&lt;20 Hz) allowing a user to see and navigate within a design from a first person perspective. However, much (if not most) of the information associated with a particular design has no geometric representation. This includes information such as schematics of electrical, hydraulic, and plumbing systems; information describing materials or processes; and descriptive (textual) information of other types. Many researchers have developed a wealth of techniques for presenting such data on flat-screen displays, but until recently, we have not had a means for naturally displaying such information within a VR environment. To make non-geometric data more available, we have implemented a version of Mosaic that functions within a fully immersive VR system. Our system, VRMosaic, allows a user of VR to access and display most of the data available using flat screen Mosaic. Moreover, we have made it extensible to allow for the seamless integration of specialized forms of data and interaction. This paper describes how we implemented VRMosaic using a VR-capable version of Interviews, It also describes some Mosaic-like uses of that system and some "non-Mosaic-like" extensions.
acm857579	Visualizing the non-visual: spatial analysis and interaction with information from text documents	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	51	null	action, archived reports, data visualisation, digital libraries, information interaction, information retrieval, informational characteristics, large text document corpora, libraries, library automation, natural world, nonvisual visualization, perception, procedures, regulations, spatial analysis, spatial representation, text content, text content spatialization, text documents, visual analysis, visual browsing, visual databases, word processing	7	P573177	10-30-1995	11	The paper describes an approach to IV that involves spatializing text content for enhanced visual browsing and analysis. The application arena is large text document corpora such as digital libraries, regulations and procedures, archived reports, etc. The basic idea is that text content from these sources may be transformed to a spatial representation that preserves informational characteristics from the documents. The spatial representation may then be visually browsed and analyzed in ways that avoid language processing and that reduce the analysts mental workload. The result is an interaction with text that more nearly resembles perception and action with the natural world than with the abstractions of written language.
acm857580	The information mural: a technique for displaying and navigating large information spaces	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	43	null	antialiasing, antialiasing techniques, browsing, color graphics, colour graphics, data visualisation, data visualization, display screen, global views, grayscale shading, information display, information mural, information navigation, large information spaces, object-oriented programming, object-oriented programs, software visualization, user interfaces, visual programming	2	P569393	10-30-1995	19	Visualizations which depict entire information spaces provide context for navigation and browsing tasks; however, the limited size of the display screen makes creating effective global views difficult. We have developed a technique for displaying and navigating large information spaces. The key concept is the use of an information mural, a two-dimensional reduced representation of an entire information space that fits completely within a display window or screen. Information murals use grayscale shading and color along with anti-aliasing techniques to create a miniature version of the entire data set. By incorporating navigational capabilities, information murals become a tool that can be used as a global view along with more detailed informational displays. Information murals are utilized in our software visualization research to help depict the execution of object-oriented programs, and can also be used in more general information visualization applications.
acm857581	Case study: 3D displays of Internet traffic	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	129	null	D displays, Internet, Internet traffic, arc height, computer animation, data visualisation, geographic context, globe surface translucency, large data sets, line crossing clutter reduction, navigation, network traffic visualisation, stereo image processing, telecommunication computing, telecommunication traffic, time indicator, world-wide communications, world-wide network data	2	P152936	10-30-1995	8	The explosive growth in world-wide communications, especially the Internet, has highlighted the need for techniques to visualize network traffic. The traditional node and link network displays work well for small datasets but become visually cluttered and uninterpretable for large datasets. A natural 3D metaphor for displaying world-wide network data is to position the nodes on a globe and draw arcs between them coding the traffic. This technique has several advantages of over the traditional 2D displays, it naturally reduces line crossing clutter, provides an intuitive model for navigation and indication of time, and retains the geographic context. Coupling these strengths with some novel interaction techniques involving the globe surface translucency and arc heights illustrates the usefulness for this class of displays.
acm857582	Case study: fishing for information on the Internet	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	105	null	FISH search visualization tool, Internet, color, data attributes, data visualisation, document hierarch, hierarchically structured information viewing, indentation, information overload management, information retrieval, large document spaces, online front-ends, order, returned documents, search requests, search tools, size, user navigation	3	P234373	10-30-1995	4	As the Internet continues to grow, the amount of accessible information becomes increasingly vast. Search tools exist that allow users to find relevant information. However, a search can often produce such a large amount of data that it becomes hard to ferret out the most appropriate and highest quality information. In addition, some search tools lose valuable information when displaying the results to the user. The paper describes a search visualization tool, called FISH, for viewing hierarchically structured information and managing information overload. FISH (Forager for the Information Super Highway) allows users to visualize the results of search requests across large document spaces in a way that preserves the structure of the information space. FISH displays the returned documents as rectangles, using a combination of order, indentation, size, and color to denote document hierarchy, the score of the documents with respect to the search, and other data attributes. In addition, the user can navigate through the document space for in-depth probing and refinement.
acm857583	Case study: Visualising cyberspace: information visualisation in the Harmony Internet browser	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	97	null	Gopher spaces, Harmony Internet browser, Harmony client, Hyper-G Internet information system, Internet, WWW spaces, cyberspace visualisation, data models, data structures, data visualisation, hypermedia, information retrieval, information systems, information visualisation, location feedback, navigational facilities	1	P152460	10-30-1995	23	The explosive growth of information systems on the Internet has clearly demonstrated the need to organise, filter, and present information in ways which allow users to cope with the sheer quantities of information available. The scope for visualisation of Gopher and WWW spaces is restricted by the limitations of their respective data models. The far richer data model supported by the Hyper-G Internet information system is exploited by its Harmony client to provide a number of tightly-coupled, two- and three-dimensional visualisation and navigational facilities, which help provide location feedback and alleviate user disorientation.
acm857584	Case study: Narcissus: visualising information	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	90	null	Narcissus, World Wide Web, adaptive systems, complex information spaces, concurrent engineering, data manipulation, data visualisation, information networks, information retrieval, information systems, information visualisation, intuitive understanding, large computer based data sets, navigation, object manipulation, programming environments, self-adjusting systems, software systems, user support, virtual reality, visual programming, visualisation tools	4	P232840	10-30-1995	8	It is becoming increasingly important that support is provided for users who are dealing with complex information spaces. The need is driven by the growing number of domains where there is a requirement for users to understand, navigate and manipulate large sets of computer based data; by the increasing size and complexity of this information and by the pressures to use this information efficiently. The paradigmatic example is the World Wide Web, but other domains include software systems, information systems and concurrent engineering. One approach to providing this support is to provide sophisticated visualisation tools which lead the users to form an intuitive understanding of the structure and behaviour of their domain and which provide mechanisms which allow them to manipulate objects within their system. The paper describes such a tool and a number of visualisation techniques that it implements.
acm857585	Case study: visualizing Internet resources	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	122	null	Internet, Internet resource visualisation, World-Wide Web hyperspace, browsing, data visualisation, document linking, documents, hyperspace hierarchical structure, information analysis, information resource interaction, information retrieval, new information analysis, new information discovery, personal information hyperspace, retrieved documents, user-centric approach, visual representation	5	P573158	10-30-1995	7	The goal is to improve the ability of people from all walks of life and interests to access, search, and use the information distributed in Internet resources. The process of interacting with information resources starts with browsing, continues with digesting and assimilating pieces of information, terminates with generation of new information, and begins anew with analysis of pre-existing and new information. Our approach is user-centric-taking users needs into account by allowing them to interact with the information contained in large arrays of documents. The visualization process is an integral part of the overall process. We have covered three related categories in this methodology. The first one is browsing through the World-Wide Web (WWW) hyperspace without becoming lost, based on a visual representation of the hyperspace hierarchical structure (hyperspace view). The second category is overcoming the rigidity of the WWW by allowing the user to construct interactively and visually a personal hyperspace of information, linking the documents according to the application or problem domain, or to the user's own perception, experience, culture, or way of thinking. The third category includes discovery and analysis of new information and relationships in retrieved documents by aggregating relevant information and representing it visually.
acm857587	Case study: A WWW viewpoint on scientific visualization: an EPA case study for technology transfer	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	112	null	EPA case study, Internet, Unix, World Wide Web, data visualisation, decision makers, environmental science computing, environmental scientists, government data processing, high performance UNIX workstations, information dissemination, information retrieval, intelligent visualization capability access, knowledge dissemination, microcomputer applications, operating systems (computers), personal computers, policy analysts, public administration, scientific visualization capabilities, technology transfer, workstations	1	P573474	10-30-1995	8	The paper examines how to provide scientific visualization capabilities to environmental scientists, policy analysts and decision makers with personal computers (PCs) on their desktops. An approach for using the World Wide Web (WWW) for disseminating knowledge on scientific visualization and for intelligent access to visualization capabilities on high performance (UNIX) workstations is outlined.
acm857589	Case study: an empirical investigation of thumbnail image recognition	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	115	null	data compression, data visualisation, edge detection, edge-detecting smoothing, image coding, image databases, image reduction, image selection, lossy image compression, parent image treatment, searching, static codebook compression, thumbnail creation, thumbnail image recognition, user interface, user interfaces, visual databases	3	P572977	10-30-1995	15	The use of thumbnails (i.e., miniatures) in the user-interface of image databases allows searching and selection of images without the need for naming policies. Treating parent images prior to reduction with edge-detecting smoothing, lossy image compression, or static codebook compression resulted in thumbnails where the distortion caused by reduction was lessened. An experiment assessing these techniques found resulting thumbnails could be recognised more quickly and accurately than thumbnails of the same parent images that had been reduced without treatment. This pretreatment in thumbnail creation is offered as an improvement.
acm857590	Towards a generative theory of diagram design	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	11	null	AVE, CAD, aesthetics, automatic visualization engine, automatic visualization process, data characterization, data visualisation, diagram design, diagrams, information visualization, process model, semantic networks	3	P573218	10-30-1995	16	We describe the theoretical background for AVE, an automatic visualization engine for semantic networks. We have a functional notion of aesthetics and therefore understand meaningfulness as a central issue for information visualization. This implies that the diagrams should communicate the characteristics of the data as effectively as possible. In this generative theory of diagram design, we include data characterization, systematic use of graphical means of expression and the combination of graphical means of expression. After giving a brief introduction and an application scenario we discuss these aspects in detail. Finally, a process model of an automatic visualization process is sketched and directions for further research are outlined.
acm857591	Visualization for functional design	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	4	null	CAD, Influence Explorer, Prosection Matrix, circuit CAD, data visualisation, electronic circuit design, engineering artifact design, engineering graphics, functional design, interactive display, interactive systems, manufacturing process, optimisation, user interfaces, visualisation tools	4	P572966	10-30-1995	10	We present two novel visualisation tools: the Influence Explorer and the Prosection Matrix. These were specifically created to support engineering artifact design and similar tasks in which a set of parameter values must be chosen to lead to acceptable artifact performance. These tools combine two concepts. One is the interactive and virtually immediate responsive display of data in a manner conducive to the acquisition of insight. The other, involving the precalculation of samples of artifact performance, facilitates smooth exploration and optimisation leading to a design decision. The anticipated benefits of these visualisation tools are illustrated by an example taken from electronic circuit design, in which full account must be taken of the uncertainties in parameter values arising from inevitable variations in the manufacturing process.
acm857592	Research report: improving browsing in information by the automatic display layout	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	26	null	automatic display layout, automatic layout system, computer animation, display layouts, graph structured information, graphical representations, graphical user interfaces, human factors, information browsing, information network, information retrieval, layout algorithms, manual layout, time consuming, user model, user modelling, user requests	2	P573340	10-30-1995	15	It is well known that graphical representations could be very helpful to browse in graph structured information. But this promising approach requires the capability of an automatic layout system because the tedious and time consuming task of a manual layout leads to a rejection of this approach by the user. In our approach, we split the task of retrieving information into two phases that are getting the orientation within the network and reading currently visited information. We present layout algorithms for both phases which have the benefit of being flexible and adaptable to individual user requests and ensure the topological consistency, i.e. the stability of the topology of the information layout during a sequence of display layouts. The results show that especially the possibility of an animation of the layout process can assist the user essentially in maintaining the orientation in the information network.
acm857593	Research report: information animation applications in the capital markets	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	19	null	D computer graphics, capital markets, computer animation, data visualisation, decision support systems, decision-support tool, equity trading analytics, financial data processing, fixed income trading analytics, fixed-income risk viewing, information animation applications, risk management, securities industry, securities market, securities trading, three dimensional computer graphics, visual design	1	P573524	10-30-1995	10	D computer graphics can be extremely expressive. It is possible to display an entire securities market, like the S&amp;P 500, on a single screen. With the correct approach to the visual design of the layout, these massive amounts of information can be quickly and easily comprehended by a human observer. By using motion and animated interaction, it is possible to use 3D as a reliable, accurate and precise decision-support tool. Information animation applications are particularly suited to the securities industry because that is where we find huge amounts of data, the value of which declines rapidly with time, and where critical decisions are being made on this data in very short periods of time. Information animation technology is an important new tool for the securities industry, where people need to be in the decision-making loop without suffering from information overload. Several examples are discussed including equity trading analytics, fixed income trading analytics and fixed-income risk viewing.
acm857597	Research report: Interacting with huge hierarchies: beyond cone trees	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	74	null	animated zooming, colour, computer animation, cone tree visualization systems, cone trees, data visualisation, depth cueing, distant node coalescence, dynamic queries, empirical evaluation, fish-eye zooming, fsviz, graphical techniques, hand-coupled rotation, huge hierarchies, huge information hierarchy interaction, huge information hierarchy visualisation, interaction techniques, node layout algorithm, texturing, tool efficacy, tree data structures, usage-based filtering, user control, visual clutter	2	P573142	10-30-1995	9	The paper describes an implementation of a tool for visualizing and interacting with huge information hierarchies, and some preliminary empirical evaluation of the tool's efficacy. Existing systems for visualizing huge hierarchies using cone trees "break down" once the hierarchy to be displayed exceeds roughly 1000 nodes, due to increasing visual clutter. The paper describes a system called fsviz which visualizes arbitrarily large hierarchies while retaining user control. This is accomplished by augmenting cone trees with several graphical and interaction techniques: usage-based filtering, animated zooming, hand-coupled rotation, fish-eye zooming, coalescing of distant nodes, texturing, effective use of colour for depth cueing, and the applications of dynamic queries. The fsviz system also improves upon earlier cone tree visualization systems through a more elaborate node layout algorithm. This algorithm enhances the usefulness of cone tree visualization for large hierarchies by all but eliminating clutter.
acm857598	Research report: DataSpace: 3-D visualizations of large databases	acm857186	Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE Symposium Information Visualization	82	null	D graph layout, 3D graphic operations, DataSpace, computer displays, continuous navigation facilities, data analysis, data visualisation, display space, image comparison, image merging, information panels, interactive 3D visualization, large database analysis, large databases, layout step, performance issues, query processing, query step, rendering step, selective rearrangements, transparency, very large databases	4	P573494	10-30-1995	16	DataSpace is a system for interactive 3-D visualization and analysis of large databases. DataSpace utilizes the display space by placing panels of information, possibly generated by different visualization applications, in a 3-D graph layout, and providing continuous navigation facilities. Selective rearrangements and transparency can be used to reduce occlusion or to compare or merge a set of images (e.g. line graphs or scatter plots) that are aligned and stacked in depth. A prototype system supporting the basic 3-D graphic operations (layout, zoom, rotation, translation, transparency) has been implemented. We provide several illustrative examples of DataSpace displays taken from the current system. We present the 3-D display paradigm, describe the query, layout and rendering steps required to create a display, and discuss some performance issues.
acm857599	Minimally-immersive interactive volumetric information visualization	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	66	null	D information visualization, SFA, data visualisation, document similarity, glyph-based volume rendering, human visual system, hypertext, information attributes, information visualization, minimally immersive volumetric interactive system, multivariate time-varying information, navigation, stereoscopic viewing, surface-based information visualization, textual documents, three-dimensional perception, three-dimensional volumetric visualization, two-handed interaction, user learning	5	P53165	10-28-1996	6	This paper describes a minimally immersive volumetric interactive system for information visualization. The system, SFA, uses glyph-based volume rendering, enabling more information attributes to be visualized than traditional 2D and surface-based information visualization systems. Two-handed interaction and stereoscopic viewing combine to produce a minimally immersive interactive system that enhances the user's three-dimensional perception of the information space, capitalizing on the human visual system's pre-attentive learning capabilities to quickly analyze the displayed information. The paper describes the usefulness of this system for the visualization of document similarity within a corpus of textual documents. SFA allows the three-dimensional volumetric visualization, manipulation, navigation, and analysis of multivariate, time-varying information spaces, increasing the quantity and clarity of information conveyed from the visualization as compared to traditional 2D information systems.
acm857600	Interactive visualization of multiway tables	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	68	null	business data visualization applications, database summarizing, interactive systems, interactive visualization, large databases, multiway tables, telephone call billing data, visualization tool	2	P152936	10-28-1996	6	Many business data visualization applications involve large databases with dozens of fields and millions of rows. Interactive visualization of these databases is difficult because of the large amount of data involved. We present a method of summarizing large databases which is well suited to interactive visualization. We illustrate this with a visualization tool for the domain of call billing data.
acm857601	FINESSE: a financial information spreadsheet	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	70	null	FINESSE, arithmetic, data visualization, financial data processing, financial information spreadsheet, functions, graphics, images, information presentation, market trends, numbers, presentation, real-time financial information, spreadsheet cells, text, three dimensions, two dimensions, user interface	2	P549550	10-28-1996	11	We outline a spreadsheet-based system for visualization of real-time financial information. Our system permits the user to define arithmetic and presentation relationships amongst the various cells of the spreadsheet. The cells contain primitives that can be numbers, text, images, functions and graphics. Presenting financial information in this format allows its intended clients, the financial analysts, to work in the familiar environment of a spreadsheet and allows them the flexibility afforded by the powerful interface of the spreadsheet paradigm. In addition, our system permits real-time visualization of the financial data stream allowing its user to visually trade the changing market trends in two and three dimensions.
acm857602	Animating multidimensional scaling to visualize N-dimensional data sets	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	72	null	N-dimensional data set visualization, computer animation, flow visualization, high-dimensional data sets, iterative nonlinear technique, multidimensional data, multidimensional scaling animation, multivariate data, stochastic perturbation	2	P572975	10-28-1996	3	Many techniques have been developed for visualizing multivariate (multidimensional) data. Most, if not all, are limited by the number of dimensions which can be effectively displayed. Multidimensional scaling (MDS) is an iterative non-linear technique for projecting n-D data down to a lower number of dimensions. This work presents extensions to MDS that enhance visualization of high-dimensional data sets. These extensions include animation, stochastic perturbation, and flow visualization techniques.
acm857603	Dual multiresolution HyperSlice for multivariate data visualization	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	74	null	HyperSlice representation, data resolution, data visualisation, logical display resolution, multiresolution visualization design, multivariate data visualization, space projection, system prototype, very large data visualization, wavelets	3	P218971	10-28-1996	5	We present a new multiresolution visualization design which allows a user to control the physical data resolution as well as the logical display resolution of multivariate data. A system prototype is described which uses the HyperSlice representation. The notion of space projection in multivariate data is introduced. This process is coupled with wavelets to form a powerful tool for very large data visualization.
acm857604	Towards rich information landscapes for visualising structured Web spaces	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	62	null	D icons, Harmony Information Landscape, Harmony browser, Hyper-G Web server, Internet, data model, document representation, hierarchical structure, hierarchy map, hyperlink, link map, navigational facilities, search queries, three dimensional icons, three-dimensional visualisation	3	P152460	10-28-1996	5	The Harmony browser for the Hyper-G Web server utilises Hyper-G's rich data model to provide a number of tightly-coupled, two- and three-dimensional visualisation and navigational facilities. In particular the Harmony Information Landscape visualises the hierarchical structure of Hyper-G spaces upon a plane in three-dimensional space. The Harmony Information Landscape has now been extended to display a combined structure and link map by selectively superimposing hyperlink relationships in the vertical dimension above and below the hierarchy map. In addition, documents returned by search queries may be selectively "plotted" in the landscape, indicating their whereabouts in a broader context, and several sets of 3D icons are available for representing the various document types.
acm857605	Visualizing the results of multimedia Web search engines	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	64	null	Internet, World Wide Web, data visualization, document retrieval, image search, multimedia Web search engines, online front-ends, query processing, text search, user friendly	3	P546514	10-28-1996	2	Search engines are very useful because they allow the user to retrieve documents of interest from the World-Wide Web. However, if the user's query results in lots of records to be retrieved, just listing the results is not very user-friendly. We are developing a system that allows the visualization of the results. Visualizations of both text and image search are generated on the fly based on the search results.
acm857606	Techniques for non-linear magnification transformations	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	38	null	data visualisation, domain constraint, efficiency, expressiveness, magnifications combination, multiple transformations combination, nonlinear magnification transformations, normal views, piecewise linear methods, smooth interpolation	2	P573465	10-28-1996	17	This paper presents efficient methods for implementing general non-linear magnification transformations. Techniques are provided for: combining linear and non-linear magnifications, constraining the domain of magnifications, combining multiple transformations, and smoothly interpolating between magnified and normal views. In addition, piecewise linear methods are introduced which allow greater efficiency and expressiveness than their continuous counterparts.
acm857607	Selection: 524,288 ways to say "this is interesting"	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	54	null	complex data-rich systems, data displays, data manipulation, data subset selection, data visualisation, data visualization, desktop GUI, drill-down analysis, icon selection, interesting results, linked-views systems, operation systems, pattern highlighting, recognizable data features, selection mechanism taxonomy	1	P573108	10-28-1996	14	Visualization is a critical technology for understanding complex, data-rich systems. Effective visualizations make important features of the data immediately recognizable and enable the user to discover interesting and useful results by highlighting patterns. A key element of such systems is the ability to interact with displays of data by selecting a subset for further investigation. This operation is needed for use in linked-views systems and in drill-down analysis. It is a common manipulation in many other systems. It is as ubiquitous as selecting icons in a desktop GUI. It is therefore surprising to note that little research has been done on how selection can be implemented. This paper addresses this omission, presenting a taxonomy for selection mechanisms and discussing the interactions between branches of the taxonomy. Our suggestion of 524,288 possible systems [2/sup 16/ operation systems/spl times/2 (memory/memoryless)/spl times/2 (data-dependent/independent)/spl times/2 (brush/lasso)] is more in fun than serious, as within the taxonomy there are many different choices that can be made. This framework is the result of considering both the current state of the art and historical antecedents.
acm857608	Distortion viewing techniques for 3-dimensional data	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	46	null	D information presentation, 3D interaction, context views, detail, distortion viewing techniques, focus, information visualization, internal access, internal data regions, line of sight, screen layout, smooth integration, symmetric distortion function, three-dimensional displays, user interface design, user interface metaphors	4	P183788	10-28-1996	21	As the use of 3D information presentation becomes more prevalent, the need for effective viewing tools grows accordingly. Much work has been done in developing tools for 2D spaces which allow for detail in context views. We examine the extension of such 2D methods to 3D and explore the limitations encountered in accessing internal regions of the data with these methods. We then describe a novel solution to this problem of internal access with the introduction of a distortion function which creates a clear line of sight to the focus revealing sections previously obscured. The distortion is symmetric about the line of sight and is smoothly integrated back into the original 3D layout.
acm857609	Visualizing a tennis match	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	108	null	athletic events, competition property, iconic representations, tennis match, top-nesting layered maps, tree data structures, visualizing	2	P172393	10-28-1996	11	This paper describes our work on visualizing the information of a tennis match. We use competition trees to organize the information of a tennis match and visualize the competition trees by the top-nesting layered maps with translucent colored layers. We create iconic representations to describe the detailed information of athletic events in an intuitive manner. Specialized views of the information are displayed by applying multiple Magic Lens filters on the top-nesting layered maps. The dynamic nature of the tennis match is depicted by the time-varying display. The approach we present in this paper can be used to visualize other sports information, information with competition property, or information with hierarchical structure.
acm857612	DEPICT: Documents Evaluated as Pictures. Visualizing information using context vectors and self-organizing maps	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	100	null	DEPICT, context vectors, data visualisation, documents evaluated as pictures, information representations, self organizing maps, textual corpora, textual entities, visualization, visualizing information	2	P573031	10-28-1996	10	HNC Software, Inc. has developed a system called DEPICT for visualizing the information content of large textual corpora. The system is built around two separate neural network methodologies: context vectors and self-organizing maps. Context vectors (CVs) are high dimensional information representations that encode the semantic content of the textual entities they represent. Self-organizing maps (SOMs) are capable of transforming an input, high dimensional signal space into a much lower (usually two or three) dimensional output space useful for visualization. Neither process requires human intervention, nor an external knowledge base. Together, these neural network techniques can be utilized to automatically identify the relevant information themes present in a corpus, and present those themes to the user in a intuitive visual form.
acm857613	Geospatial metadata querying and visualization on the WWW using Java/sup TM/ applets	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	77	null	Federal Geographic Data Committee, HTML, Hypertext Markup Language, Java applets, Master Environmental Library system, WWW, World Wide Web, content standards, datasets, distributed data access, geospatial metadata querying, geospatial metadata visualization, interactive system, visual databases	2	P573303	10-28-1996	11	This paper presents the query and visualization interfaces of the Master Environmental Library (MEL) system. MEL uses the World Wide Web (WWW) to make accessible distributed data whose metadata conform to the Federal Geographic Data Committee's (FGDC) content standards for digital geospatial metadata. The interfaces are implemented as Java/sup TM/ applets and are more intuitive, interactive and possess greater functionality than their Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) counterparts. As well as querying, the interface allows users to visualize and manage the list of query results so that users can more quickly discover the datasets of real interest. Several new tools used to visualize attributes of the metadata are presented.
acm857614	Visualizing usability log data	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	93	null	charts, custom visualizations, data analysis, data logging, data visualisation, geometry, graphical user interface testing, key press, mouse click, organizing structure, usability analysis, usability log data visualisation	3	P179328	10-28-1996	8	Our approach to testing graphical user interfaces involves logging large amounts of data. These logs capture information at the key press and mouse click level about how an application is used. Since the raw data is voluminous and not at a useful level of detail, we use analysis and visualization to find information that is interesting and useful to a usability analyst but was previously buried in the data. We call some of our custom visualizations "contextual" meaning they use key elements of the context the data was collected in as an organizing structure. We expect this type of visualization to be easier and faster to understand and more helpful than traditional charts. We hope that our finding a natural geometry for these visualizations will inspire others whose data apparently has no inherent geometry to find natural ways to visualize their data.
acm857615	Visualizing the global topology of the MBone	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	85	null	IP addresses, Internet, Internet MBone, MBone routers, MBone topology visualisation, NASA shuttle launches, VRML, World-Wide Web, case study, conferences, congressional sessions, data visualization, geographic representation, hostnames, interactive 3D maps, meetings, minimal packet duplication, multicast backbone, multiple receivers, real-time audio, real-time video, suboptimal topology, tunnel structure	4	P275633	10-28-1996	12	We present a case study of visualizing the global topology of the Internet MBone. The MBone is the Internet's multicast backbone. Multicast is the most efficient way of distributing data from one sender to multiple receivers with minimal packet duplication. Developed and initially deployed by researchers within the Internet community, the MBone has been extremely popular for efficient transmission across the Internet of real-time video and audio streams such as conferences, meetings, congressional sessions, and NASA shuttle launches. The MBone, like the Internet itself grew exponentially with no central authority. The resulting suboptimal topology is of growing concern to network providers and the multicast research community. We create a geographic representation of the tunnel structure as arcs on a globe by resolving the latitude and longitude of MBone routers. The interactive 3D maps permit an immediate understanding of the global structure unavailable from the data in its original form as lines of text with only hostnames and IP addresses. Data visualization techniques such as grouping and thresholding allow further analysis of specific aspects of the MBone topology. We distribute the interactive 3D maps through the World-Wide Web using the VRML file format thus allowing network maintainers throughout the world to analyze the structure move effectively than would be possible with still pictures or pre-made videos.
acm857617	Data characterization for automatically visualizing heterogeneous information	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	13	null	application domains, automated graphical generation systems, automatic visualization, automatically-generated examples, data analysis taxonomy, data characterization, data visualisation, domain-specific information, graphical technique selection, heterogeneous information, interactive environments, presentation-related characteristics, presentations design, qualitative information, quantitative information, static environments, user information-seeking goals, visual interpretation preferences	2	P573284	10-28-1996	13	Automated graphical generation systems should be able to design effective presentations for heterogeneous (quantitative and qualitative) information in static or interactive environments. When building such a system, it is important to thoroughly understand the presentation-related characteristics of domain-specific information. We define a data-analysis taxonomy that can be used to characterize heterogeneous information. In addition to capturing the presentation-related properties of data, our characterization takes into account the user's information-seeking goals and visual-interpretation preferences. We use automatically-generated examples from two different application domains to demonstrate the coverage of the proposed taxonomy and its utility for selecting effective graphical techniques.
acm857618	Visage: a user interface environment for exploring information	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	3	null	SAGE, Visage, briefing tool, data manipulation operations, data-intensive domains, direct user access, information analysis, information exploration, information-centric approach, intelligent system, interaction styles, interactive presentation slides, multiple data visualizations, presentation tools, user interface design, user interface environment, user interface management systems, visual display conversion	8	P573425	10-28-1996	13	Visage is a prototype user interface environment for exploring and analyzing information. It represents an approach to coordinating multiple visualizations, analysis and presentation tools in data-intensive domains. Visage is based on an information-centric approach to user interface design which strives to eliminate impediments to direct user access to information objects across applications and visualizations. Visage consists of a set of data manipulation operations, an intelligent system for generating a wide variety of data visualizations (SAGE) and a briefing tool that supports the conversion of visual displays used during exploration into interactive presentation slides. This paper presents the user interface components and styles of interaction that are central to Visage's information-centric approach.
acm857619	Rapid prototyping of information visualizations using VANISH	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	21	null	C++ class browser, VANISH, VaPL, application domains, hierarchically structured information, information navigation, interactive information visualization, presentation toolkit, rapid prototyping, software architecture, software prototyping, software tool, visual language, visualization techniques reuse, visualization-specific code	2	P528641	10-28-1996	12	Discusses a software tool called VANISH (Visualizing And Navigating Information Structured Hierarchically), which supports the rapid prototyping of interactive 2D and 3D information visualizations. VANISH supports rapid prototyping through a special-purpose visual language called VaPL (VANISH Programming Language) tailored for visualizations, through a software architecture that insulates visualization-specific code from changes in both the domain being visualized and the presentation toolkit used, and through the reuse of visualization techniques between application domains. The generality of VANISH is established by showing how it is able to re-create a wide variety of "standard" visualization techniques. VANISH's support for prototyping is shown through an extended example, where we build a C++ class browser, exploring many visualization alternatives in the process.
acm857620	On the semantics of interactive visualizations	acm857187	Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (INFOVIS '96) 	29	null	automatic presentation systems, complex 3D visualizations, graphics, information acquisition, information analysis, information communication, interactive systems, interactive visualization, large data sets, semantics, visualization interface construction toolkits	2	P573257	10-28-1996	10	Interactive techniques are powerful tools for manipulating visualizations to analyze, communicate and acquire information. This is especially true for large data sets or complex 3D visualizations. Although many new types of interaction have been introduced recently, very little work has been done on understanding what their components are, how they are related and how they can be combined. This paper begins to address these issues with a framework for classifying interactive visualizations. Our goal is a framework that will enable us to develop toolkits for assembling visualization interfaces both interactively and automatically.
acm857624	Visualizing Information on a Sphere	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	11	null	information visualization, physically-based systems, multidimensional information space, hierarchies, blobby clustering	3	P317275	10-18-1997	20	We describe a method for the visualization of information units on spherical domains which is employed in the banking industry for risk analysis, stock prediction and other tasks. The system is based on a quantification of the similarity of related objects that governs the parameters of a mass-spring system. Unlike existing approaches we initialize all information units onto the inner surface of two concentric spheres and attach them with springs to the outer sphere. Since the spring stiffnesses correspond to the computed similarity measures, the system converges into an energy minimum which reveals multidimensional relations and adjacencies in terms of spatial neighborhoods. Depending on the application scenario our approach supports different topological arrangements of related objects. In order to cope with large data sets we propose a blobby clustering mechanism that enables encapsulation of similar objects by implicit shapes. In addition, we implemented various interaction techniques allowing semantic analysis of the underlying data sets. Our prototype system IVORY is written in JAVA, and its versatility is illustrated by an example from financial service providers.
acm857625	Adaptive information visualization based on the user's multiple viewpoints-interactive 3D visualization of the WWW	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	25	null	CVI, Internet, RF-Cone, World Wide Web, adaptive information visualization method, data visualisation, graphical user interfaces, hypermedia, information retrieval, interactive 3D visualization, interactive viewpoint selection, multiple viewpoints, semantic relationship, structural relationship	2	P573476	10-18-1997	9	We introduce the adaptive information visualization method for hypermedia and the WWW based on the user's multiple viewpoints. We propose two graphical interfaces, the CVI and the RF-Cone. The CVI is the interface for interactive viewpoint selection. We can select a viewpoint reflecting our interests by using the CVI. According to the given viewpoint, the RF-Cone adaptively organizes the 3D representation of the hypermedia so that we can understand the semantic and structural relationship of the hypermedia and easily retrieve the information. Combining these methods, we have developed the WWW visualization system which can provide highly efficient navigation.
acm857626	A spreadsheet approach to information visualization	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	17	null	complex data set, data complexity, data operations, data types, domain-specific operators, information visualization, inter-cell operations, multidimensional datasets, prototype systems, selection criteria, spreadsheet approach, spreadsheet programs, view operations, viewing parameters, viewing specifications	4	P573049	10-18-1997	24	In information visualization, as the volume and complexity of the data increases, researchers require more powerful visualization tools that enable them to more effectively explore multidimensional datasets. We discuss the general utility of a novel visualization spreadsheet framework. Just as a numerical spreadsheet enables exploration of numbers, a visualization spreadsheet enables exploration of visual forms of information. We show that the spreadsheet approach facilitates certain information visualization tasks that are more difficult using other approaches. Unlike traditional spreadsheets, which store only simple data elements and formulas in each cell, a visualization spreadsheet cell can hold an entire complex data set, selection criteria, viewing specifications, and other information needed for a full-fledged information visualization. Similarly, inter-cell operations are far more complex, stretching beyond simple arithmetic and string operations to encompass a range of domain-specific operators. We have built two prototype systems that illustrate some of these research issues. The underlying approach in our work allows domain experts to define new data types and data operations, and enables visualization experts to incorporate new visualizations, viewing parameters, and view operations.
acm857627	H3: laying out large directed graphs in 3D hyperbolic space	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	2	null	D hyperbolic space, H3 layout technique, cone tree layout algorithm, data visualization, directed graphs, domain-specific knowledge, euclidean 3-space, graph drawing, hierarchical data, hyperbolic navigation, large directed graphs, node-link diagrams, optimization, spanning tree, subtree pruning, visual clutter	1	P275633	10-18-1997	29	We present the H3 layout technique for drawing large directed graphs as node-link diagrams in 3D hyperbolic space. We can lay out much larger structures than can be handled using traditional techniques for drawing general graphs because we assume a hierarchical nature of the data. We impose a hierarchy on the graph by using domain-specific knowledge to find an appropriate spanning tree. Links which are not part of the spanning tree do not influence the layout but can be selectively drawn by user request. The volume of hyperbolic 3-space increases exponentially, as opposed to the familiar geometric increase of euclidean 3-space. We exploit this exponential amount of room by computing the layout according to the hyperbolic metric. We optimize the cone tree layout algorithm for 3D hyperbolic space by placing children on a hemisphere around the cone mouth instead of on its perimeter. Hyperbolic navigation affords a Focus+Context view of the structure with minimal visual clutter. We have successfully laid out hierarchies of over 20,000 nodes. Our implementation accommodates navigation through graphs too large to be rendered interactively by allowing the user to explicitly prune or expand subtrees.
acm857630	Metrics for effective information visualization	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	108	null	D information visualization, cognitive overhead, data density, data points, data visualisation, design, dimensions, identifiable points, information visualization metrics, occlusion, reference context	1	P573368	10-18-1997	15	Metrics for information visualization will help designers create and evaluate 3D information visualizations. Based on experience from 60+ 3D information visualizations, the metrics we propose are: number of data points and data density; number of dimensions and cognitive overhead; occlusion percentage; and reference context and percentage of identifiable points.
acm857631	Multidimensional detective	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	100	null	D pattern recognition problem, VLSI chip, approximate optimization, competition, data visualisation, decision support, economic model, economic policies, economic sectors, knowledge discovery, modeling relations, monitoring, multidimensional detective, multivariate dataset display, parallel coordinates, trade-off analyses, visual data mining	1	P4781	10-18-1997	10	The display of multivariate datasets in parallel coordinates, transforms the search for relations among the variables into a 2-D pattern recognition problem. This is the basis for the application to visual data mining. The knowledge discovery process together with some general guidelines are illustrated on a dataset from the production of a VLSI chip. The special strength of parallel coordinates is in modeling relations. As an example, a simplified economic model is constructed with data from various economic sectors of a real country. The visual model shows the interelationship and dependencies between the sectors, circumstances where there is competition for the same resource, and feasible economic policies. Interactively, the model can be used to do trade-off analyses, discover sensitivities, do approximate optimization, monitor (as in a process) and provide decision support.
acm857632	The structure of the information visualization design space	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	92	null	data visualisation, information visualization design space, information visualization literature, morphological analysis, point designs, research, taxonomy, user interfaces	2	P252641	10-18-1997	23	Research on information visualization has reached the point where a number of successful point designs have been proposed and a variety of techniques have been discovered. It is now appropriate to describe and analyze portions of the design space so as to understand the differences among designs and to suggest new possibilities. This paper proposes an organization of the information visualization literature and illustrates it with a series of examples. The result is a framework for designing new visualizations and augmenting existing designs.
acm857638	Coordinating declarative queries with a direct manipulation data exploration environment	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	65	null	VQE, Visage, consistency, data analysis, data exploration environment, database systems, dataset, declarative queries, direct manipulation, graphical user interfaces, information centric paradigm, interactive visualization, multiple objects, query processing, visual query language	3	P178184	10-18-1997	15	Interactive visualization techniques allow data exploration to be a continuous process, rather than a discrete sequence of queries and results as in traditional database systems. However limitations in expressive power of current visualization systems force users to go outside the system and form a new dataset in order to perform certain operations, such as those involving the relationship among multiple objects. Further, there is no support for integrating data from the new dataset into previous visualizations, so users must recreate them. Visage's information centric paradigm provides an architectural hook for linking data across multiple queries, removing this overhead. This paper describes the addition to Visage of a visual query language, called VQE, which allows users to express more complicated queries than in previous interactive visualization systems. Visualizations can be created from queries and vice versa. When either is updated, the other changes to maintain consistency.
acm857639	Design and Evaluation of Incremental Data Structures and Algorithms for Dynamic Query Interfaces	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	81	null	Data Structure, Algorithm, Database, User Interface, Information Visualization, Direct Manipulation, and Dynamic Query	3	P75845	10-18-1997	11	Dynamic query interfaces (DQIs) are a recently developed database access mechanism that provides continuous real-time feedback to the user during query formulation. Previous work shows that DQIs are an elegant and powerful interface to small databases. Unfortunately, when applied to large databases, previous DQI algorithms slow to a crawl. We present a new incremental approach to DQI algorithms and display updates that works well with large databases, both in theory and in practice.
acm857640	Research Report: Volume Rendering for Relational Data	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	87	null	information visualization, multivariate data, relational data, scatterplot, volume rendering	1	P27937	10-18-1997	13	A method for efficiently volume rendering dense scatterplots of relational data is described. Plotting difficulties that arise from large numbers of data points, categorical variables, interaction with non-axis dimensions, and unknown values, are addressed by this method. The domain of the plot is voxelized using binning and then volume rendered. Since a table is used as the underlying data structure, no storage is wasted on regions with no data. The opacity of each voxel is a function of the number of data points in a corresponding bin. A voxel's color is derived by averaging the value of one of the variables for all the data points that fall in a bin. Other variables in the data may be mapped to external query sliders. A dragger object permits a user to select regions inside the volume.
acm857641	Domesticating Bead: adapting an information visualization system to a financial institution	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	73	null	D visualization tool, 3D visualizations, 3D web browsers, Bead visualization system, UBS, data analysis, data types, data visualisation, financial institution, high-dimensional data layout, information visualization system, low-dimensional space, similarity metrics, spreadsheets	4	P52432	10-18-1997	20	The Bead visualization system employs a fast algorithm for laying out high-dimensional data in a low-dimensional space, and a number of features added to 3D visualizations to improve imageability. We describe recent work on both aspects of the system, in particular a generalization of the data types laid out and the implementation of imageability features in a 2D visualization tool. The variety of data analyzed in a financial institution such as UBS, and the ubiquity of spreadsheets as a medium for analysis, led us to extend our layout tools to handle data in a generic spreadsheet format. We describe the metrics of similarity used for this data type, and give examples of layouts of sets of records of financial trades. Conservatism and scepticism with regard to 3D visualization, along with the lack of functionality of widely available 3D web browsers, led to the development of a 2D visualization tool with refinements of a number of our imageability features.
acm857642	On Integrating Visualization Techniques for Effective Software Exploration	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	38	null	Nested graphs, pan and zoom, fisheye views, hypertext,mental map, software visualization, program understanding	4	P185572	10-18-1997	25	This paper describes the SHriMP visualization technique for seamlessly exploring software structure and browsing source code, with a focus on effectively assisting hybrid program comprehension strategies. The technique integrates both pan+zoom and fisheye-view visualization approaches for exploring a nested graph view of software structure. The fisheye-view approach handles multiple focal points, which are necessary when examining several subsystems and their mutual interconnections. Source code is presented by embedding code fragments within the nodes of the nested graph. Finer connections among these fragments are represented by a network that is navigated using a hypertext link-following metaphor. SHriMP combines this hypertext metaphor with animated panning and zooming motions over the nested graph to provide continuous orientation and contextual cues for the user. The SHriMP tool is currently being evaluated in several user studies. Observations of users performing program understanding tasks with the tool are discussed.
acm857643	Cacti: a front end for program visualization	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	46	null	Cacti, data model, data sources, data visualisation, dynamic analysis, high-quality, multiple data sources, program visualization front end, queries, resource files, software understanding, static analysis, visual universal-relation front end	1	P256437	10-18-1997	22	We describe a system that allows the user to rapidly construct program visualizations over a variety of data sources. Such a system is a necessary foundation for using visualization as an aid to software understanding. The system supports an arbitrary set of data sources so that information from both static and dynamic analysis can be combined to offer meaningful software visualizations. It provides the user with a visual universal-relation front end that supports the definition of queries over multiple data sources without knowledge of the structure or contents of the sources. It uses a flexible back end with a range of different visualizations, most geared to the efficient display of large amounts of data. The result is a high-quality, easy-to-define program visualization that can address specific problems and hence is useful for software understanding. The overall system is flexible and extensible in that both the underlying data model and the set of visualizations are defined in resource files.
acm857644	Managing Software with New Visual Representations	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	30	null	null	2	P195636	10-18-1997	13	Managing large projects is a very challenging task requiring the tracking and scheduling of many resources. Although new technologies have made it possible to automatically collect data on project resources, it is very difficult to access this data because of its size and lack of structure. We present three novel glyphs for simplifying this process and apply them to visualizing statistics from a multi-million line software project. These glyphs address four important needs in project management: 1) Viewing time dependent data; 2) Managing large data volumes; 3) Dealing with diverse data types and 4) Correspondence of data to "real-world" concepts.
acm857645	Managing multiple focal levels in Table Lens	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	59	null	Table Lens, context visualization, data values, data visualisation, design enhancements, exploratory data analysis, focus visualization, graphical representations, large data tables, multiple focal level management, screen space, single pixel row, spreadsheet, user interface	2	P573475	10-18-1997	5	The Table Lens, focus+context visualization for large data tables, allows users to see 100 times as many data values as a spreadsheet in the same screen space in a manner that enables an extremely immediate form of exploratory data analysis. In the original Table Lens design, data are shown in the context area using graphical representations in a single pixel row. Scaling up the Table Lens technique beyond approximately 500 cases (rows) by 40 variables (columns) requires not showing every value individually and thus raises challenges for preserving the exploratory and navigational ease and power of the original design. We describe two design enhancements for introducing regions of less than a pixel row for each data value and discuss the issues raised by each.
acm857646	Nonlinear Magnification Fields	acm857188	Proceedings of the 1997 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis '97) 	51	null	null	2	P275012	10-18-1997	14	We introduce nonlinear magnification fields as an abstract representation of nonlinear magnification, providing methods for converting transformation routines to magnification fields and vice-versa. This new representation provides ease of manipulation and power of expression. By removing the restrictions of explicit foci and allowing precise specification of magnification values, we can achieve magnification effects which were not previously possible. Of particular interest are techniques we introduce for expressing complex and subtle magnification effects through magnification brushing, and allowing intrinsic properties of the data being visualized to create data-driven magnifications.
acm857655	Evaluating a Visualization of Image Similarity as a Tool for Image Browsing	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	36	null	null	4	P160714	10-24-1999	14	A similarity metric based on the low-level content of images can be used to create a visualization in which visually similar images are displayed close to each other. We are carrying out a series of experiments to evaluate the usefulness of this type of visualization as an image browsing aid. The initial experiment, described in this paper, considered whether people would find a given photograph more quickly in a visualization than in a randomly arranged grid of images. The results show that the subjects were faster with the visualization, although in post-experiment interviews many of them said that they preferred the clarity and regularity of the grid. We describe an algorithm with which the best aspects of the two layout types can be combined.
acm857656	Does Animation Help Users Build Mental Maps of Spatial Information?	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	28	null	Evaluation, animation, real-time computer graphics, Zoomable User Interfaces (ZUIs), multiscale interfaces, Pad++	2	P28811	10-24-1999	25	We examine how animating a viewpoint change in a spatial information system affects a user's ability to build a mental map of the information in the space. We found that animation improves users' ability to reconstruct the information space, with no penalty on task performance time. We believe that this study provides strong evidence for adding animated transitions in many applications with fixed spatial data where the user navigates around the data space.
acm857657	Domain Analysis: A Technique to Design a User-Centered Visualization Framework	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	44	null	null	2	P573004	10-24-1999	25	Domain Analysis for Data Visualization (DADV) is a technique to use when investigating a domain where data visualizations are going to be designed and added to existing software systems. DADV was used to design the data visualization in VisEIO-LCA, which is a framework to visualize environmental data about products.Most of the visualizations are designed using the following stages: formatting data in tables, selecting visual structures, and rendering the data on the screen. Although many visualizations authors perform implicit domain analysis, in this paper domain analysis is added explicitly to the process of designing visualizations with the goal of producing more usable software tools. Environmental Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) is used as a test bed for this technique.
acm857659	A Framework for Focus+Context Visualization	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	53	null	Focus+context visualization, information visualization,fisheye views, formal methods, theory	3	P572183	10-24-1999	21	This paper aims to give a systematic account of focus+context visualization techniques. i.e. visualizations which aim to give users integrated visual access to details and context in a data set. We introduce the notion that there are different orders of information visualization, with focus+context being a second-order visualization and provide a formal framework for describing and constructing focus+context visualizations.
acm857660	D Interactive Visualization for Inter-Cell Dependencies of Spreadsheets	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	79	null	d user interfaces, Natto View, information visualization, inter-cell dependencies, lifting-up operation, spreadsheets	3	P110338	10-24-1999	15	This paper proposes a new interactive visualization technique to show spreadsheet structures intelligibly. In this way, the system firstly visualizes a spreadsheet on a plane in three-dimensional space, and draws arcs between interrelated cells. By allowing a user to select an arbitrary cell and lift it up with direct manipulation, the system utilizes the third dimension to ameliorate visual occlusion of crossing arcs. As the user lifts a focused cell up, the interrelated cells are lifted up together; thus hidden data-flow networks can be visually intelligible interactively. Because spreadsheets intend to calculation itself rather than appearances of outputs, their mechanism is relatively invisible and not obvious for ordinary users. Our visualization helps such users to understand structures and mechanism of spreadsheets.
acm857661	Dynamic Hierarchy Specification and Visualization	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	65	null	null	2	P243325	10-24-1999	16	This paper describes concepts that underlie the design and implementation of an information exploration system that allows users to impose arbitrary hierarchical organizations on their data. Such hierarchies allow a user to embed important semantic information into the hierarchy definition. Our goal is to recognize the significance of this implicit information and to utilize it in the hierarchy visualization. The innovative features of our system include the dynamic modification of the hierarchy definitions and the definition and implementation of a set of layout algorithms that utilize semantic information implicit in the tree construction.
acm857662	Navigating Hierarchies with Structure-Based Brushes	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	58	null	Brushing, hierarchical representation, interactive selection,exploratory data analysis	3	P305826	10-24-1999	17	Interactive selection is a critical component in exploratory visualization, allowing users to isolate subsets of the displayed information for highlighting, deleting, analysis, or focussed investigation. Brushing, a popular method for implementing the selection process, has traditionally been performed in either screen space or data space. In this paper, we introduce the concept of a structure-based brush, which can be used to perform selection in hierarchically structured data sets. Our structure-based brush allows users to navigate hierarchies by specifying focal extents and level-of-detail on a visual representation of the structure. Proximity-based coloring, which maps similar colors to data that are closely related within the structure, helps convey both structural relationships and anomalies. We describe the design and implementation of our structure-based brushing tool. We also validate its usefulness using two distinct hierarchical visualization techniques, namely hierarchical parallel coordinates and tree-maps.
acm857663	Cushion Treemaps: Visualization of Hierarchical Information	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	73	null	Information Visualization, Tree Visualization, Treemaps	2	P422303	10-24-1999	11	A new method is presented for the visualization of hierarchical information, such as directory structures and organization structures. Cushion treemaps inherit the elegance of standard treemaps: compact, space-filling displays of hierarchical information, based on recursive subdivision of a rectangular image space. Intuitive shading is used to provide insight in the hierarchical structure.During the subdivision ridges are added per rectangle, which are rendered with a simple shading model. The result is a surface that consists of recursive cushions. The method is efficient, effective, easy to use and implement, and has a wide applicability.
acm857665	Cluster and Calendar Based Visualization of Time Series Data	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	4	null	Cluster Analysis, Information Visualization, Time Series Data	2	P422303	10-24-1999	7	A new method is presented to get insight into univariate time series data. The problem addressed here is how to identify patterns and trends on multiple time scales (days, weeks, seasons) simultaneously. The solution presented is to cluster similar daily data patterns, and to visualize the average patterns as graphs and the corresponding days on a calendar. This presentation provides a quick insight into both standard and exceptional patterns. Furthermore, it is well suited to interactive exploration. Two applications, numbers of employees present and energy consumption, are presented.
acm857666	Sensemaking of Evolving Web Sites Using Visualization Spreadsheets	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	18	null	Information visualization, Spreadsheet, Sensemaking, World Wide Web, Information ecologies, Log file analysis	2	P74502	10-24-1999	19	In the process of knowledge discovery, workers examine available information in order to make sense of it. By sensemaking, we mean interacting with and operating on the information with a variety of information processing mechanisms [3,18]. Previously, we introduced a concept that uses the spreadsheet metaphor with cells containing visualizations of complex data. In this paper, we extend and apply a cognitive model called "visual sensemaking" to the Visualization Spreadsheet. We use the task of making sense of a large Web site as a concrete example through out the paper for demonstration. Using a variety of visualization techniques, such as the Disk Tree and Cone Tree, we show that the interactions of the Visualization Spreadsheet help users draw conclusions from the overall relationships of the entire information set.
acm857667	Visualizing Application Behavior on Superscalar Processors	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	10	null	Computer systems visualization, superscalar processors, visualization systems	4	P337868	10-24-1999	15	The advent of superscalar processors with out-of-order execution makes it increasingly difficult to determine how well an application is utilizing the processor and how to adapt the application to improve its performance. In this paper, we describe a visualization system for the analysis of application behavior on superscalar processors. Our system provides an overview-plus-detail display of the application's execution. A timeline view of pipeline performance data shows the overall utilization of the pipeline. This information is displayed using multiple time scales, enabling the user to drill down from a high-level application overview to a focus region of hundreds of cycles. This region of interest is displayed in detail using an animated cycle-by-cycle view of the execution. This view shows how instructions are reordered and executed and how functional units are being utilized. Additional context views correlate instructions in this detailed view with the relevant source code for the application. This allows the user to discover the root cause of the poor pipeline utilization and make changes to the application to improve its performance. This visualization system can be easily configured to display a variety of processor models and configurations. We demonstrate it for both the MXS and MMIX processor models.
acm857668	Constellation: A Visualization Tool for Linguistic Queries from MindNet	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	132	null	null	3	P278221	10-24-1999	14	Constellation is a visualization system for the results of queries from the MindNet natural language semantic network. Constellation is targeted at helping MindNet's creators and users refine their algorithms, as opposed to understanding the structure of language. We designed a special-purpose graph layout algorithm which exploits higher-level structure in addition to the basic node and edge connectivity. Our layout prioritizes the creation of a semantic space to encode plausibility instead of traditional graph drawing metrics like minimizing edge crossings. We make careful use of several perceptual channels both to minimize the visual impact of edge crossings and to emphasize highlighted constellations of nodes and edges.
acm857669	The Automated Multidimensional Detective	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	112	null	null	2	P14716	10-24-1999	9	Automation has arrived to Parallel Coordinates. A geometrically motivated classifier is presented and applied, with both training and testing stages, to 3 real data-sets. Our results compared to those from 23 other classifiers have the least error. The algorithm is based on parallel coordinates and: has very low computational complexity in the number of variables and the size of the data-set - contrasted with the very high or unknown (often unstated) complexity of other classifiers, the low complexity enables the rule derivation to be done in near real-time hence making the classification adaptive to changing conditions, provides comprehensible and explicit rules - contrasted to neural networks which are "black boxes", does dimensionality selection - where the minimal set of original variables (not transformed new variables as in Principal Component Analysis) required to state the rule is found, orders these variables so as to optimize the clarity of separation between the designated set and its complement - this solves the pesky "ordering problem" in parallel coordinates.The algorithm is display independent, hence it can be applied to very large in size and number of variables data-sets. Though it is instructive to present the results visually, the input size is no longer display-limited as for visual data mining.
acm857670	Visualizing Association Rules for Text Mining	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	120	null	Text Visualization, Information Visualization,Text Mining, Data Mining, Association Rule	3	P218971	10-24-1999	17	An association rule in data mining is an implication of the form X -&gt; Y where X is a set of antecedent items and Y is the consequent item. For years researchers have developed many tools to visualize association rules. However, few of these tools can handle more than dozens of rules, and none of them can effectively manage rules with multiple antecedents. Thus, it is extremely difficult to visualize and understand the association information of a large data set even when all the rules are available. This paper presents a novel visualization technique to tackle many of these problems. We apply the technology to a text mining study on large corpora. The results indicate that our design can easily handle hundreds of multiple antecedent association rules in a three-dimensional display with minimum human interaction, low occlusion percentage, and no screen swapping.
acm857671	A Java-Based Visual Mining Infrastructure and Applications	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	124	null	Hidden Structure and Relationship, Java-Based, Knowledge Discovery, Visual Mining	5	P398046	10-24-1999	9	Many real-world KDD (Knowledge Discovery &amp; Data Mining) applications involve the navigation of large volumes of information on the web, such as, Internet resources, hot topics, and telecom phone switches. Quite often users feel lost, confused, and overwhelmed with displays that contain too much information. This paper discusses a new content-driven visual mining infrastructure called VisMine, that uses several innovative techniques: (1) hidden visual structure and relationships for uncluttering displays; (2) simultaneous visual presentations for high-dimensional knowledge discovery; and (3) a new visual interface to plug in existing graphic toolkits for expanding its use in a wide variety of visual applications. We have applied this infrastructure to three data mining visualization applications - topic hierarchy for document navigation, web-based trouble shooting, and telecom switch mining.
acm857672	The Sunflower Visual Metaphor, a New Paradigm for Dimensional Compression	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	128	null	information retrieval, information visualization, knowledge management, text visualization, visualization	1	P573455	10-24-1999	11	This paper introduces the Sunflower visual metaphor for information visualization. The visual metaphor is presented as an alternative to current techniques of dimensional compression and the visualization tools that employ them. The paper discusses the motivation for the Sunflower paradigm, its implementation and critical factors for producing an effective visualization. A primary driver in this research effort has been to develop a visualization tool that facilitates browsing, knowledge discovery, and that supports learning through sense making and integration of new information.
acm857673	Aggregate Towers: Scale Sensitive Visualization and Decluttering of Geospatial Data	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	92	null	data visualization, information visualization, aggregation, zoom, cartography	1	P573181	10-24-1999	16	We have developed a technique, Aggregate Towers, that allows Geospatial data to be visualized across a range of map scales. We use a combination of data aggregation algorithms and dynamically aggregating data markers (e.g., icons or symbols) to accommodate interactive zooming by a user while maintaining a representation that remains intuitive, consistent across multiple scales, and uncluttered. This approach implicitly generates multiple levels of overview displays from a single set of underlying data.CR Categories and Subject Descriptors: H.5.2 [Information Interfaces and Presentation]: User Interfaces; I.3.6 [Computer Graphics]: Methodology and Techniques; I.3.7 [Computer Graphics]: Three-Dimensional Graphics and Realism Additional Keywords: data visualization, information visualization, aggregation, zoom, cartography
acm857674	Efficient Multi-Object Dynamic Query Histograms	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	84	null	Database, Dynamic Query, Probabilistic Algorithms	4	P190105	10-24-1999	15	Dynamic Queries offer continuous feedback during range queries, and have been shown to be effective and satisfying. Recent work has extended them to data-sets of 100,000 objects and, separately, to queries involving relations among multiple objects. The latter work enables filtering houses by properties of their owners, for instance. Our primary concern is providing feedback from histograms during Dynamic Query. The height of each histogram bar shows the count of selected objects whose attribute value falls into a given range. Unfortunately, previous efficient algorithms for single object queries over count in the case of multiple objects if, for instance, a house has multiple owners. This paper presents an efficient algorithm that with high probability closely approximates the true counts.
acm857675	VisageWeb: Visualizing WWW Data in Visage	acm857189	Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 	100	null	Information Visualization, User Interface, World Wide Web	3	P387576	10-24-1999	15	VisageWeb is an information-centric user interface to the World Wide Web built within the Visage data visualization environment. This paper traces the development of the VisageWeb project, using it to motivate an exploration of how an information-centric architecture copes with new visualization challenges. We conclude with a presentation of the VisageWeb prototype itself.
acm857679	Collaborative Geographic Visualization: Enabling Shared Understanding of Environmental Processes	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	137	null	collaboration, geographic visualization, spatio-temporal, user task analysis	5	P398954	10-09-2000	2	Most work with geospatial data, whether for scientific analysis, urban and groups carry out environmental planning or business decision-making. In contrast, geographic visualization environments and related geographic information technologies have been built and assessed only for use by individuals. In this paper, we describe a prototype same-time/different-place collaborative geovisualization environment. Next, we outline an approach to understanding use and usability and present results of interviews with domain experts about the ways in which collaborative geovisualization might enable group work at a distance. Finally, we present goals for further research.
acm857680	ThemeRiver: Visualizing Theme Changes over Time	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	115	null	timeline, trend analysis, visualization metaphors	3	P421226	10-09-2000	11	ThemeRiver(tm) is a prototype system that visualizes thematic variations over time within a large collection of documents. The "river" flows from left to right through time, changing width to depict changes in thematic strength of temporally associated documents. Colored "currents" flowing within the river narrow or widen to indicate decreases or increases in the strength of an individual topic or a group of topics in the associated documents. The river is shown within the context of a timeline and a corresponding textual presentation of external events.
acm857681	New Methods for the Visualization of Electric Power System Information	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	131	null	Electric Power System Visualization, Electric Utility Restructuring, Interactive 3D	2	P281357	10-09-2000	0	One area in need of new research in information visualization is the operation and analysis of large-scale electric power systems. In analyzing power systems, one is usually confronted with a large amount of multivariate data. With systems containing tens of thousands of electrical nodes (buses), a key challenge is to present this data in a form so the user can assess the state of the system in an intuitive and quick manner. This is particularly true when trying to analyze relationships between actual network power flows, the scheduled power flows, and the capacity of the transmission system. With electric industry restructuring and the move towards having a single entity, such as an independent system operator or pool, operate a much larger system, this need has become more acute. This paper presents several power system visualization techniques to help in this task. These techniques include animation of power system flow values, contouring of bus and transmission line flow values, data aggregation techniques and interactive 3D data visualization.
acm857682	Lighthouse: Showing the Way to Relevant Information	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	125	null	null	2	P20682	10-09-2000	2	Lighthouse is an on-line interface for a Web-based information retrieval system. It accepts queries from a user, collects the retrieved documents from the search engine, organizes and presents them to the user. The system integrates two known presentations of the retrieved results -- the ranked list and clustering visualization -- in a novel and effective way. It accepts the user's input and adjusts the document visualization accordingly. We give a brief overview of the system.
acm857683	Focus+Context Display and Navigation Techniques for Enhancing Radial, Space-Filling Hierarchy Visualizations	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	57	null	animation, circular/radial displays, focus+context, hierarchy visualizations, information visualization, overview and detail	2	P146109	10-09-2000	15	Radial, space-filling visualizations can be useful for depicting information hierarchies, but they suffer from one major problem. As the hierarchy grows in size, many items become small, peripheral slices that are difficult to distinguish. We have developed three visualization/interaction techniques that provide flexible browsing of the display. The techniques allow viewers to examine the small items in detail while providing context within the entire information hierarchy. Additionally, smooth transitions between views help users maintain orientation within the complete information space.
acm857684	Density Functions for Visual Attributes and Effective Partitioning in Graph Visualization	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	49	null	clustering, graph navigation, graph visualization, metrics	3	P117429	10-09-2000	18	Two tasks in Graph Visualization require partitioning: the assignment of visual attributes and divisive clustering. Often, we would like to assign a color or other visual attributes to a node or edge that indicates an associated value. In an application involving divisive clustering, we would like to partition the graph into subsets of graph elements based on metric values in such a way that all subsets are evenly populated. Assuming a uniform distribution of metric values during either partitioning or coloring can have undesired effects such as empty clusters or only one level of emphasis for the entire graph. Probability density functions derived from statistics about a metric can help systems succeed at these tasks.
acm857685	Visualizing Massive Multi-Digraphs	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	39	null	graphs, hierarchies, massive data sets, out-of-core algorithms, visualization	2	P131535	10-09-2000	17	We describe MGV, an integrated visualization and exploration system for massive multi-digraph navigation. MGV's only assumption is that the vertex set of the underlying digraph corresponds to the set of leaves of a predetermined tree T. MGV builds an out-of-core graph hierarchy and provides mechanisms to plug in arbitrary visual representations for each graph hierarchy slice. Navigation from one level to another of the hierarchy corresponds to the implementation of a drill-down interface. In order to provide the user with navigation control and interactive response, MGV incorporates a number of visualization techniques like interactive pixel-oriented 2D and 3D maps, statistical displays, multi-linked views, and a zoomable label based interface. This makes the association of geographic information and graph data very natural. MGV follows the client-server paradigm and it is implemented in C and Java-3D. We highlight the main algorithmic and visualization techniques behind the tools and point out along the way several possible application scenarios. Our techniques are being applied to multi-graphs defined on vertex sets with sizes ranging from 100 million to 250 million vertices.
acm857686	Polaris: A System for Query Analysis and Visualization of Multi-Dimensional Relational Databases	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	5	null	database visualization, database analysis, visualization formalism, multidimensional databases	2	P337868	10-09-2000	29	In the last several years, large multi-dimensional databases have become common in a variety of applications such as data warehousing and scientific computing. Analysis and exploration tasks place significant demands on the interfaces to these databases. Because of the size of the data sets, dense graphical representations are more effective for exploration than spreadsheets and charts. Furthermore, because of the exploratory nature of the analysis, it must be possible for the analysts to change visualizations rapidly as they pursue a cycle involving first hypothesis and then experimentation.In this paper, we present Polaris, an interface for exploring large multi-dimensional databases that extends the well-known Pivot Table interface. The novel features of Polaris include an interface for constructing visual specifications of table-based graphical displays and the ability to generate a precise set of relational queries from the visual specifications. The visual specifications can be rapidly and incrementally developed, giving the analyst visual feedback as they construct complex queries and visualizations.
acm857687	Getting Portals to Behave	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	15	null	Data Visualization, Multiple Views, Portals	2	P46262	10-09-2000	16	Data visualization environments help users understand and analyze their data by permitting interactive browsing of graphical representations of the data. To further facilitate understanding and analysis, many visualization environments have special features known as portals, which are sub-windows of a data canvas. Portals provide a way to display multiple graphical representations simultaneously, in a nested fashion. This makes portals an extremely powerful and flexible paradigm for data visualization. Unfortunately, with this flexibility comes complexity. There are over a hundred possible ways each portal can be configured to exhibit different behaviors. Many of these behaviors are confusing and certain behaviors can be inappropriate for a particular setting. It is desirable to eliminate confusing and inappropriate behaviors. In this paper, we construct taxonomy of portal behaviors and give recommendations to help designers of visualization systems decide which behaviors are intuitive and appropriate for a particular setting. We apply these recommendations to an example setting that is fully visually programmable and analyze the resulting reduced set of behaviors. Finally, we consider a real visualization environment and demonstrate some problems associated with behaviors that do not follow our recommendations.
acm857688	A Scalable Framework for Information Visualization	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	27	null	Focus+Context, clustering, hierarchy, information visualization, multi-dimensional information space	3	P194797	10-09-2000	23	This paper describes major concepts of a scalable information visualization framework. We assume that the exploration of heterogeneous information spaces at arbitrary levels of detail requires a suitable preprocessing of information quantities, the combination of different graphical interfaces and the illustration of the frame of reference of given information sets. The innovative features of our system include dynamic hierarchy computation and user controlled refinement of those hierarchies for preprocessing unstructured information spaces, a new Focus+Context technique for visualizing complex hierarchy graphs, a new paradigm for visualizing information structures within their frame of reference and a new graphical interface that utilizes textual similarities to arrange objects of high dimensional information space in 3-dimensional visualization space.
acm857689	GADGET/IV: A Taxonomic Approach to Semi-Automatic Design of Information Visualization Applications Using Modular Visualization Environment	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	77	null	Information visualization, Modular Visualization Environment (MVE), World Wide Web (WWW), knowledge base, taxonomy, visualization systems	4	P117266	10-09-2000	20	Since novice users of visualization systems lack the knowledge and expertise in data visualization, it is a tough task for them to generate efficient and effective visualizations that allow them to comprehend information embedded in the data. Therefore, systems supporting the users to design appropriate visualizations are of great importance. The GADGET system, which has been developed in our previous study, interactively helps them design scientific visualization applications by presenting appropriate MVE prototypes according to the specification of the visualization goals expressed mainly with the Wehrend matrix. This paper attempts to extend this approach in order to develop a system named GADGET/IV}, which is intended to provide the users with an environment for semi-automatic design of information visualization applications. To this end, a novel goal-oriented taxonomy of information visualization techniques is presented. In addition, an initial design of the system architecture and user assistance flow is described. The usefulness of the GADGET/IV system is illustrated with example problems of Web site access frequency analysis.
acm857690	Information Content Measures of Visual Displays	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	99	null	information content, information theory, information visualization, metrics	2	P573204	10-09-2000	10	With an increase in the number of different visualization techniques, it becomes necessary to develop a measure for evaluating the effectiveness of visualizations. Metrics to evaluate visual displays were developed based on measures of information content developed by Shannon and used in communication theory. These measures of information content can be used to quantify the relative effectiveness of displays.
acm857691	A Taxonomy of Visualization Techniques Using the Data State Reference Model	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	69	null	Data State Model, Information Visualization, Operators, Reference Model, Taxonomy, Techniques	1	P74502	10-09-2000	8	In previous work, researchers have attempted to construct taxonomies of information visualization techniques by examining the data domains that are compatible with these techniques. This is useful because implementers can quickly identify various techniques that can be applied to their domain of interest. However, these taxonomies do not help the implementers understand how to apply and implement these techniques. In this paper, we will extend and then propose a new way to taxonomize information visualization techniques by using the Data State Model [Chi98]. In fact, as the taxonomic analysis in this paper will show, many of the techniques share similar operating steps that can easily be reused. The paper shows that the Data State Model not only helps researchers understand the space of design, but also helps implementers understand how information visualization techniques can be applied more broadly.
acm857692	From Metaphor to Method: Cartographic Perspectives on Information Visualization	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	91	null	Cartographic Generalization, Cartography, Feature Labeling, Information Visualization, Maps	1	P572942	10-09-2000	23	By virtue of their spatio-cognitive abilities, humans are able to navigate through geographic space as well as meaningfully communicate geographic information represented in cartographic form. The current dominance of spatial metaphors in information visualization research is the result of the realization that those cognitive skills also have value in the exploration and analysis of non-geographic information. While mapping or landscape metaphors are routinely used in this field, there is a noticeable lack of consideration for existing cartographic expertise. This is especially apparent whenever problematic issues are encountered, such as graphic complexity or feature labeling. There are a number of areas in which a cartographic outlook could provide a valuable perspective. This paper discusses how geographic and cartographic notions may influence the design of visualizations for textual information spaces. Map projections, generalization, feature labeling and map design issues are discussed.
acm857693	Visualizing Sequential Patterns for Text Mining	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	105	null	null	5	P218971	10-09-2000	11	A sequential pattern in data mining is a finite series of elements such as A .B .C .D where A, B, C, and D are elements of the same domain. The mining of sequential patterns is designed to find patterns of discrete events that frequently happen in the same arrangement along a timeline. Like association and clustering, the mining of sequential patterns is among the most popular knowledge discovery techniques that apply statistical measures to extract useful information from large datasets. As our computers become more powerful, we are able to mine bigger datasets and obtain hundreds of thousands of sequential patterns in full detail. With this vast amount of data, we argue that neither data mining nor visualization by itself can manage the information and reflect the knowledge effectively. Subsequently, we apply visualization to augment data mining in a study of sequential patterns in large text corpora. The result shows that we can learn increasingly quickly in an integrated visual data-mining environment.
acm857694	Redefining the Focus and Context of Focus+Context Visualizations	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	85	null	Focus+Context techniques, Information Visualization, Personal Digital Assistants	2	P572183	10-09-2000	24	The increasing diversity of computers, especially among small mobile devices such as mobile phones and PDAs, raise new questions about information visualization techniques developed for the desktop computer. Using a series of examples ranging from applications for ordinary desktop displays to web-browsers and other applications for PDAs, we describe how a focus+context technique, Flip Zooming, is changed due to the situation it is used in. Based on these examples, we discuss how the use of "focus" and "context" in focus+context techniques change in order to fit new areas of use for information visualization.
acm857697	Metaphor-Aware 3D Navigation	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	155	null	D Information Visualization, 3D Navigation, 3D Visual Metaphors, Metaphor-Aware Navigation, Virtual Worlds	6	P572992	10-09-2000	5	Anyone who has ever experienced three-dimensional (3D) interfaces will agree that navigating in a 3D world is not a trivial task. The user interface of traditional 3D browsers provides simple navigation tools that allow the user to modify the camera parameters such as orientation, position and focal. Using these tools, it is frequent that, after some movements, the user is lost in the virtual 3D space and usually tries to restart from the beginning.This paper presents how the 3D navigation problem is addressed in the context of the CyberNet project. Our underlying principle is to help the user navigate by adapting the navigation tool to the virtual world. We feel that the navigation schemes provided by the 3D browsers are too generic for some specific 3D tools and we have developed adaptive navigation features that are dependent on the 3D metaphor used for visualizing the information and on the user's task.
acm857698	Interactive Problem Solving via Algorithm Visualization	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	145	null	Interactive information visualization, combinatorial search, configuration design, human-computer collaboration	2	P342898	10-09-2000	10	COMIND is a tool for conceptual design of industrial products. It helps designers define and evaluate the initial design space by using search algorithms to generate sets of feasible solutions. Two algorithm visualization techniques, Kaleidoscope and Lattice, and one visualization of n-dimensional data, MAP, are used to externalize the machine's problem solving strategies and the tradeoffs as a result of using these strategies. After a short training period, users are able to discover tactics to explore design space effectively, evaluate new design solutions, and learn important relationships among design criteria, search speed, and solution quality. We thus propose that visualization can serve as a tool for interactive intelligence, i.e., human-machine collaboration for solving complex problems.
acm857699	Using Visualization to Detect Plagiarism in Computer Science Classes	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	173	null	N-gram analysis, Pattern Matching, Plagiarism, Visualization	2	P349300	10-09-2000	5	This paper introduces a number of general methods for visualizing commonality in sets of text files. Each visualization simultaneously compares one file in the set to all other files in the set. These visualizations, which can be computed in O(n) time and space, are explained and then applied to the problem of detecting plagiarism in large computer science classes. A case study is presented and sample visualizations are provided. Finally, a new interactive tool that can be used to produce and manipulate these visualizations is presented.
acm857700	Creativity Complexity and Precision: Information Visualization for (Landscape) Architecture	acm857190	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Vizualization 2000 	167	null	Information visualization, architecture, work materials, context, spatio-temporal order, electronic workspace	5	P573301	10-09-2000	5	Drawing on ethnographic studies of (landscape) architects at work, this paper presents a human-centered approach to information visualization. A 3D collaborative electronic workspace allows people to configure, save, and browse arrangements of heterogeneous work materials. Spatial arrangements and links are created and maintained as an integral part of ongoing work with "live" documents and objects. The result is an extension of the physical information space of the architects' studio that utilizes the potential of electronic data storage, visualization, and network technologies to support work with information in context.
acm857702	Graphic Data Display for Cardiovascular System Case Study	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	163	null	Anesthesiology, Display Design, Graphic Displays, Medicine, Metaphor Displays, Visualization	6	P466509	10-22-2001	13	Our multi-disciplinary group has developed a visual representation for cardiovascular physiological variables. This enhances a clinician's ability to detect and rapidly respond to critical events. The integrated and intuitive display communicates a patient's cardiovascular state so that it is easily and quickly understood without prior training. The display is designed to show patterns of functional relationships that aid in the detection, diagnosis, and treatment of a critical event.
acm857703	Case Study: Design and Assessment of an Enhanced Geographic Information System for Exploration of Multivariate Health Statistics	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	159	null	geographic visualization, health statistics, multivariate statistical visualization	3	P244729	10-22-2001	5	An implementation of an interactive parallel coordinate plot linked with the ArcView(r) geographic information system (GIS) is presented. The integrated geographic visualization system was created for the exploratory analysis of mortality data from specific cancers as they relate, specifically spatially, to other mortality causes and to demographic and socioeconomic risk factors. The linked and interactive parallel coordinate plot was tested with and compared to a similarly interactive and linked scatterplot in usability assessments designed to assess each representation's relative effectiveness for exploration of these data sets. Evidence from these studies suggests that multivariate, spatial, and/or time series exploration is enhanced through the use of the parallel coordinate plot linked to maps.
acm857704	Effective Graph Visualization Via Node Grouping	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	51	null	Experimental Studies, Force-Directed Drawing, Graph Drawing, Graph Visualization, Node Grouping, Orthogonal Drawing	2	P466953	10-22-2001	31	We discuss four methodologies for the application of node grouping in graph visualization. In addition, we introduce techniques for force-directed and orthogonal drawing which use node grouping information and have been shown in experiments to perform better than previous techniques. Not only do these techniques have significantly improved performance with respect to standard aesthetic measures, but they also attain qualitative improvement.
acm857705	Animated Exploration of Dynamic Graphs with Radial Layout	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	43	null	graph drawing, animation, interaction	4	P339321	10-22-2001	22	We describe a new animation technique for supporting interactive exploration of a graph. We use the well-known radial tree layout method, in which the view is determined by the selection of a focus node. Our main contribution is a method for animating the transition to a new layout when a new focus node is selected. In order to keep the transition easy to follow, the animation linearly interpolates the polar coordinates of the nodes, while enforcing ordering and orientation constraints. We apply this technique to visualizations of social networks and of the Gnutella file-sharing network, and discuss the results from our informal usability tests.
acm857706	Graph Sketches	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	67	null	graphs, hierarchies., massive data sets, visualization	3	P131535	10-22-2001	13	We introduce the notion of Graph Sketches. They can be thought of as visual indices that guide the navigation of a multi-graph too large to fit on the available display. We adhere to the Visual Information-Seeking Mantra: Overview first, zoom and filter, then details on demand. Graph Sketches are incorporated into MGV, an integrated visualization and exploration system for massive multi-digraph navigation. We highlight the main algorithmic and visualization tasks behind the computation of Graph Sketches and illustrate several application scenarios. Graph Sketches will be used to guide the navigation of multi-digraphs defined on vertex sets with sizes ranging from 100 to 250 million vertices.
acm857707	Visualization of State Transition Graphs	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	59	null	Clustering, Cone Trees, Finite Automaton, Finite State Machines, Graph Visualization, State Transition Diagrams, Symmetry.	3	P573090	10-22-2001	13	A new method for the visualization of state transition graphs is presented. Visual information is reduced by clustering nodes, forming a tree structure of related clusters. This structure is visualized in three dimensions with concepts from cone trees and emphasis on symmetry. The resulting visualization makes it easier to relate features in the visualization of the state transition graph to semantic concepts in the corresponding process and vice versa.
acm857708	Collapsible Cylindrical Trees: A Fast Hierarchical Navigation Technique	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	79	null	D graphics, VRML, XML, hierarchy, interactive tree, sitemap, visualization, web navigation	2	P343763	10-22-2001	17	This paper proposes a new visualization and interaction technique for medium-sized trees, called Collapsible Cylindrical Trees (CCT). Child nodes are mapped on rotating cylinders, which will be dynamically displayed or hidden to achieve a useful balance of detail and context. Besides a comprehensible three-dimensional visualization of trees, the main feature of CCT is a very fast and intuitive interaction with the displayed nodes. Only a single click is needed to reach every node and perform an action on it, such as displaying a web page. The CCT browsing technique was developed for interaction with web hierarchies but is not limited to this domain. We also present sample implementations of CCT using VRML, which show the usefulness of this intuitive tree navigation technique.
acm857709	Botanical Visualization of Huge Hierarchies	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	87	null	botanical tree, directory tree, huge hierarchy, logical tree, phyllotaxis, strands, tree visualization	3	P573068	10-22-2001	14	A new method for the visualization of huge hierarchical data structures is presented. The method is based on the observation that we can easily see the branches, leaves and their arrangement in a botanical tree, despite of the large number of elements. The strand model of Holton is used to convert an abstract tree into a geometric model. Non-leaf nodes are mapped to branches and child nodes to sub-branches. A naive application of this model leads to unsatisfactory results, hence it is tailored to suit our purposes better. Continuing branches are emphasized, long branches are contracted, and sets of leaves are shown as fruit. The method is applied to the visualization of directory structures. The elements, directories and files, as well as their relations can easily be extracted, thereby showing that the use of methods from botanical modeling can be effective for information visualization.
acm857710	Ordered Treemap Layouts	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	73	null	hierarchies, information visualization, ordered treemaps, treemaps, trees	2	P28685	10-22-2001	11	Treemaps, a space-filling method of visualizing large hierarchical data sets, are receiving increasing attention. Several algorithms have been proposed to create more useful displays by controlling the aspect ratios of the rectangles that make up a treemap. While these algorithms do improve visibility of small items in a single layout, they introduce instability over time in the display of dynamically changing data, and fail to preserve an ordering of the underlying data. This paper introduces the ordered treemap, which addresses these two shortcomings. The ordered treemap algorithm ensures that items near each other in the given order will be near each other in the treemap layout. Using experimental evidence from Monte Carlo trials, we show that compared to other layout algorithms ordered treemaps are more stable while maintaining relatively favorable aspect ratios of the constituent rectangles. A second test set uses stock market data.
acm857711	D vs 3D: Implications on Spatial Memory	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	139	null	D, 3D, Spatial memory, hierarchical representations	2	P573300	10-22-2001	11	Since the introduction of graphical user interfaces (GUI) and two-dimensional (2D ) displays, the concept of space has entered the information technology (IT) domain. Interactions with computers were re-encoded in terms of fidelity to the interactions with real environment and consequently in terms of fitness to cognitive and spatial abilities. A further step in this direction was the creation of three-dimensional (3D) displays which have amplified the fidelity of digital representations. However, there are no systematic results evaluating the extent to which 3D displays better support cognitive spatial abilities. The aim of this research is to empirically investigate spatial memory performance across different instances of 2D and 3D displays. Two experiments were performed. The displays used in the experimental situation represented hierarchical information structures. The results of the test show that the 3D display does improve performances in the designed spatial memory task.
acm857712	A Comparison of 2-D Visualizations of Hierarchies	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	131	null	decision tree, icicle plot, tree ring, treemap	2	P573492	10-22-2001	8	This paper describes two experiments that compare four two-dimensional visualizations of hierarchies: organization chart, icicle plot, treemap, and tree ring. The visualizations are evaluated in the context of decision tree analyses prevalent in data mining applications. The results suggest that either the tree ring or icicle plot is equivalent to the organization chart.
acm857713	An Empirical Comparison of Three Commercial Information Visualization Systems	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	123	null	null	1	P14721	10-22-2001	13	An empirical comparison of three commercial information visualization systems on three different databases is presented. The systems use different paradigms for visualizing data. Tasks were selected to be "ecologically relevant", i.e. meaningful and interesting in the respective domains. Users of one system turned out to solve problems significantly faster than users of the other two, while users of another system would supply significantly more correct answers. Reasons for these results and general observations about the studied systems are discussed.
acm857714	Case Study: E-Commerce Clickstream Visualization	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	153	null	E-Commerce clickstream visualization, graph visualization, web site visualization	2	P312796	10-22-2001	17	We have developed an interactive, scalable visualization tool for analyzing the behavior of users of a web site. Our system not only shows site topology and traffic flow, but by segmenting site traffic data based on user attributes, including demographic data and purchase history, we can present a more complete picture of web site usage. This can lead to a more focussed analysis that allows direct comparison between user segments, and ultimately a deeper understanding of how users interact with a site. The tool is designed for real world use, and we present a usage study of the tool by analyzing the data of a failed "dot-com".
acm857715	Case Study: Visualization for Decision Tree Analysis in Data Mining	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	149	null	decision tree, linked views	2	P573492	10-22-2001	4	Decision trees are one of the most popular methods of data mining. Decision trees partition large amounts of data into smaller segments by applying a series of rules. Creating and evaluating decision trees benefits greatly from visualization of the trees and diagnostic measures of their effectiveness. This paper describes an application, EMTree Results Viewer, that supports decision tree analysis through the visualization of model results and diagnosis. The functionality of the application and the visualization techniques are revealed through an example of churn analysis in the telecommunications industry.
acm857716	Technical Note: Visually Encoding Program Test Information to Find Faults in Software	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	33	null	animation, circular/radial displays, debugging, fault localization, focus+context, hierarchy visualizations, overview and detail	4	P573179	10-22-2001	5	Large test suites are frequently used to evaluate software systems and to locate errors. Unfortunately, this process can generate a huge amount of data that is difficult to interpret manually. We have created a system, Tarantula, that visually encodes test data to help find program errors. The system uses a principled color mapping to represent source lines in passed and failed tests. It also provides a flexible user interface for examining different perspectives that show the behavior of the source code on test sets, ranging from individual tests, to important subsets such as the set of failed tests, to the entire test suite.
acm857717	Getting Along: Composition of Visualization Paradigms	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	37	null	composition, fisheye, information visualization, nonlinear magnification, pan and zoom, treemaps	1	P275012	10-22-2001	16	This paper describes how focus+context techniques can be composed with other high-level visualization paradigms to mutual advantage. Examples are given showing composition both with a pan\&amp;zoom system, and with a treemap implementation. The examples illustrate how focus+context can be used as an exploration and navigation tool within those paradigms.
acm857719	Visualizing Time-Series on Spirals	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	7	null	Data Mining., Graph Drawing, Information Visualization, Visualization of Time-Series Data	3	P573287	10-22-2001	16	In this paper, we present a new approach for the visualization of time-series data based on spirals. Different to classical bar charts and line graphs, the spiral is suited to visualize large data sets and supports much better the identification of periodic structures in the data. Moreover, it supports both the visualization of nominal and quantitative data based on a similar visualization metaphor. The extension of the spiral visualization to 3D gives access to concepts for zooming and focusing and linking in the data set. As such, spirals complement other visualization techniques for time series and specifically enhance the identication of periodic patterns.
acm857720	Cluster Stability and the Use of Noise in Interpretation of Clustering	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	23	null	null	3	P95381	10-22-2001	19	A clustering and ordination algorithm suitable for mining extremely large databases, including those produced by microarray expression studies, is described and analyzed for stability. Data from a yeast cell cycle experiment with 6000 genes and 18 experimental measurements per gene are used to test this algorithm under practical conditions. The process of assigning database objects to an X,Y coordinate, ordination, is shown to be stable with respect to random starting conditions, and with respect to minor perturbations in the starting similarity estimates. Careful analysis of the way clusters typically co-locate, versus the occasional large displacements under different starting conditions are shown to be useful in interpreting the data. This extra stability information is lost when only a single cluster is reported, which is currently the accepted practice. However, it is believed that the approaches presented here should become a standard part of best practices in analyzing computer clustering of large data collections.
acm857721	Change Blindness in Information Visualization: A Case Study	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	15	null	null	3	P335624	10-22-2001	35	Change blindness occurs when people do not notice changes in visible elements of a scene. If people use an information visualization system to compare document collection subsets partitioned by their time-stamps, change blindness makes it impossible for them to recognize even very major changes, let alone minor ones. We describe theories from cognitive science that account for the change blindness phenomenon, as well as solutions developed for two visual analysis tools, a dot plot (SPIRE Galaxies) and landscape (ThemeView(tm)) visualizations.
acm857724	Semantic Depth of Field	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	97	null	Depth of Field, Focus and Context, Information Visualization	3	P346684	10-22-2001	26	We present a new technique called Semantic Depth of Field (SDOF) as an alternative approach to focus-and-context displays of information. We utilize a well-known method from photography and cinematography (depth-of-field effect) for information visualization, which is to blur different parts of the depicted scene in dependence of their relevance. Independent of their spatial locations, objects of interest are depicted sharply in SDOF, whereas the context of the visualization is blurred. In this paper, we present a flexible model of SDOF which can be easily adopted to various types of applications. We discuss pros and cons of the new technique, give examples of application, and describe a fast prototype implementation of SDOF.
acm857725	Interactive Visualization of Multiple Query Results	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	105	null	query results, search results, visualization	5	P421226	10-22-2001	15	This paper introduces a graphical method for visually presenting and exploring the results of multiple queries simultaneously. This method allows a user to visually compare multiple query result sets, explore various combinations among the query result sets, and identify the "best" matches for combinations of multiple independent queries. This approach might also help users explore methods for progressively improving queries by visually comparing the improvement in result sets.
acm857726	Pixel Bar Charts: A New Technique for Visualizing Large Multi-Attribute Data Sets without Aggregation	acm580582	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization 2001 (INFOVIS'01) 	113	null	Multi-attributes Visualization, No-aggregation, No-overlapping, Pixel Bar Charts	5	P438303	10-22-2001	19	Simple presentation graphics are intuitive and easy-to-use, but show only highly aggregated data and present only a very limited number of data values (as in the case of bar charts). In addition, these graphics may have a high degree of overlap which may occlude a significant portion of the data values (as in the case of the x-y plots). In this paper, we therefore propose a generalization of traditional bar charts and x-y-plots which allows the visualization of large amounts of data. The basic idea is to use the pixels within the bars to present the detailed information of the data records. Our so-called pixel bar charts retain the intuitiveness of traditional bar charts while allowing very large data sets to be visualized in an effective way. We show that, for an effective pixel placement, we have to solve complex optimization problems, and present an algorithm which efficiently solves the problem. Our application using real-world e-commerce data shows the wide applicability and usefulness of our new idea.
acm857729	Process Visualization with Levels of Detail	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	67	null	focus+context visualization, information visualization, levels of detail, process visualization	4	P573233	10-28-2002	10	In this paper we demonstrate how we apply information visualization techniques to process monitoring. Virtual instruments are enhanced using history encoding instruments are capable of displaying the current value and the value from the near past. Multi-instruments are capable of displaying several data sources simultaneously. Levels of detail for virtual instruments are introduced where the screen area is inversely proportional to the informationamount displayed. Furthermore the monitoring system is enhanced by using: 3D anchoring, attachment of instruments to positions on a 3D model, collision avoidance, a physically based spring model prevents instruments from overlapping, and focus+context rendering giving the user a possibility to examine particular instruments in detail without loosing the context information.
acm857731	Case Study: Visualizing Sets of Evolutionary Trees	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	71	null	null	2	P209431	10-28-2002	15	We describe a visualization tool which allows a biologist to explore a large set of hypothetical evolutionary trees. Interacting with such a dataset allows the biologist to identify distinct hypotheses about how different species or organisms evolved, which would not have been clear from traditional analyses. Our system integrates a point-set visualization of the distribution of hypothetical trees with detail views of an individual tree, or of a consensus tree summarizinga subset of trees. Efficient algorithms were required for the key tasks of computing distances between trees, finding consensus trees, and laying out the point-set visualization.
acm857732	Interactive Information Visualization of a Million Items	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	117	null	Methodology and Techniques,User Interfaces,Picture/Image Generation	2	P136466	10-28-2002	25	Existing information visualization techniques are usually limited to the display of a few thousand items. This article describes new interactive techniques capable of handling a million items (effectively visible and manageable on screen). We evaluate the use of hardware-based techniques available with newer graphics cards, as well as new animation techniques and non-standard graphical features such as stereovision and overlap count. These techniques have been applied to two popular information visualizations: treemaps and scatter plot diagrams; but are generic enough to be applied to other 2D representations as well.
acm857733	Arc Diagrams: Visualizing Structure in Strings	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	110	null	arc diagram, code, music, sequence, string, text, visualization	1	P192713	10-28-2002	10	This paper introduces a new visualization method, the arc diagram, which is capable of representing complex patterns of repetition in string data. Arc diagrams improve over previous methods such as dotplots because they scale efficiently for strings that contain many instances of the same subsequence. This paper describes design and implementation issues related to arc diagrams and shows how they may be applied to visualize such diverse data as music, text, and compiled code.
acm857734	Visualizing Biosequence Data Using Texture Mapping	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	103	null	null	2	P573362	10-28-2002	20	Data-mining of information by the process of pattern discovery in protein sequences has been predominantly algorithm based. In this paper we discuss a visualization approach, which uses texture mapping and blending techniques to perform visual data-mining on text data obtainedfrom discovering patterns in protein sequences. This visual approach, investigates the possibilities of representing text data in three dimensions and provides new possibilities ofrepresenting more dimensions of information in text data visualization and analysis. We also present a generic framework derived from this visualization approach to visualize text in biosequence data.
acm857735	Building a Visual Database for Example-based Graphics Generation	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	23	null	null	3	P199962	10-28-2002	23	Example-based graphics generation systems automatically create new information visualizations by learning from existing graphic examples. As part of the effort on developing a general-purpose example-based generation system, we are building a visual database of graphic examples. In this paper, we address two main issues involved in constructing such a database: example selection and example modeling. As a result, our work offers three unique contributions: First, we build a visual database that contains a diverse collection of well-designed examples. Second, we develop a feature-based scheme to model all examples uniformly and accurately. Third, our visual database brings several important implications to the area of information visualization.
acm857736	Multiscale Visualization Using Data Cubes "InfoVis 2002 Best Paper"	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	7	null	Multiscale visualization, database visualization, graphic formalism	3	P337868	10-28-2002	21	Most analysts start with an overview of the data before gradually refining their view to be more focused and detailed. Multiscale pan-and-zoom systems are effective because they directly support this approach. However, generating abstract overviews of large data sets is difficult, and most systems take advantage of only one type of abstraction: visual abstraction. Furthermore, these existing systems limit the analyst to a single zooming path on their data andthus a single set of abstract views.This paper presents: (1) a formalism for describing multiscale visualizations of data cubes with both data and visual abstraction, and (2) a method for independently zooming along one or more dimensions by traversing a zoom graph with nodes at different levels of detail. As an example of how to design multiscale visualizations using our system, we describe four design patterns using our formalism. These design patterns show the effectiveness of multiscalevisualization of general relational databases.
acm857737	Visualization Schemas for Flexible Information Visualization	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	15	null	null	3	P46258	10-28-2002	20	Relational databases provide significant flexibility to organize, store, and manipulate an infinite variety of complex data collections. This flexibility is enabled by the concept of relational data schemas, which allow data owners to easily design custom databases according to their unique needs. However, user interfaces and information visualizations for accessing and utilizing databases have not kept pace with this level of flexibility. This paper introduces the concept of Visualization Schemas, based on the Snap-Together Visualization model, which are analogous to relational data schemas. Visualization schemas enable users to rapidly construct customized multiple-view visualizations for databases in a similarly flexible fashion without programming. Since the design of appropriate visualizations for a given database depends on the data schema, visualization schemas are a natural analogy to the data schema concept.
acm857738	A Hybrid Layout Algorithm for Sub-Quadratic Multidimensional Scaling	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	152	null	null	3	P572938	10-28-2002	12	Many clustering and layout techniques have been used for structuring and visualising complex data. This paper is inspired by a number of such contemporary techniques and presents a novel hybrid approach based upon stochastic sampling, interpolation and spring models. We use Chalmers' 1996 0(N2) spring model as a benchmark when evaluating our technique, comparing layout quality and run times using data sets of synthetic and real data. Our algorithm runs in 0(N\sqrt N) and executes significantly faster than CHalmers' 1996 algorithm, whilst producing superior layouts. In reducing complexity and run time, we allow the visualisation of data sets of previously infeasible size. Our results indicate that our method is a solid foundation for interactive and visual exploration of data.
acm857739	ACE: A Fast Multiscale Eigenvectors Computation for Drawing Huge Graphs	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	137	null	Fiedler vector, algebraic multigrid, force directed layout, generalized eigenvalue problem, graph drawing, multiscale/multilevel optimization, the Hall energy	3	P305301	10-28-2002	22	We present an extremely fast graph drawing algorithm for very large graphs, which we term ACE (for Algebraic multigrid Computation of Eigenvectors). ACE exhibits improvement of something like two orders of magnitude over the fastest algorithms we are aware of; it draws graphs of millions of nodes in less than a minute. ACE finds optimal drawing by minimizing a quadratic energy function. The minimization problem is expressed as a generalized eigenvalue problem, which is rapidly solved using novel algebraic multigrid technique. The samegeneralized eigenvalue problem seems to come up also in other fields, hence ACE appears to be applicable outside of graph drawing too.
acm857740	Visual Unrolling of Network Evolution and the Analysis of Dynamic Discourse	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	145	null	null	2	P286704	10-28-2002	18	A new method for visualizing the class of incrementally evolving networks is presented. In addition to the intermediate states of the network it conveys the nature of the change between them by unrolling the dynamics of the network. Each modification is shown in a separate layer of a three-dimensional representation, where the stack of layers corresponds to a time line of the evolution. We focus on discourse networks as the driving application, but our method extends to any type of network evolving in similar ways.
acm857741	Multiple Foci Drill-Down through Tuple and Attribute Aggregation Polyarchies in Tabular Data	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	131	null	null	3	P345055	10-28-2002	14	Information analysis often involves decomposing data into sub-groups to allow for comparison and identification of relationships. Breakdown Visualization provides a mechanism to support this analysis through user guided drill-down of polyarchical metadata. This metadata describes multiple hierarchical structures for organizing tuple aggregations and table attributes. Thisstructure is seen in financial data, organizational structures, sport statistics, and other domains. A spreadsheet format enables comparison of visualizations at any level of the hierarchy. Breakdown Visualization allows users to drill-down a single hierarchy then pivot into another hierarchy within the same view. It utilizes a fix and move technique that allows users to select multiple foci for drill-down.
acm857742	Angular Brushing of Extended Parallel Coordinates	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	127	null	brushing, focus+context visualization, information visualization, linear correlations, parallel coordinates	3	P109156	10-28-2002	11	In this paper we present angular brushing for parallel coordinates (PC) as a new approach to highlighting rational data-properties, i.e., features which in a non-separable way depend on two data dimensions. We also demonstrate smooth brushing as an intuitive tool for specifying non-binary degree-of-interest functions (for focus+context visualization). We also briefly describe our implementation as well as its application to the visualization of CFD data.
acm857746	Visual Path Analysis	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	165	null	null	2	P275012	10-28-2002	13	This paper describes a system for analyzing the flow of traffic through web-sites. We decomposed the general path analysis problem into a set of distinct subproblems, and createda visual metaphor for analyzing each of them. Our system works off of multiple representations of the clickstream, and exposes the path extraction algorithms and data to the visual metaphors as web services. We have combined the visual metaphors into a web-based "path analysis portal" that lets the user easily switch between the different modes of analysis.
acm857747	Demystifying Venture Capital Investing	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	161	null	null	1	P507545	10-28-2002	7	Since the crash of the dot.coms, investors have gotten a lot more careful with where they place their money [3]. Now more than ever it becomes really important for venture capitalists (VCs) to monitor the state of the startups market and continually update their investment strategy to suit the rapidly changing market conditions. This paper presents three new visualization metaphors (Spiral Map, TimeTicker, and Double Histogram) for monitoring the startups market. While we are focusing on the VC domain, the visual metaphors developed are general and can be easily applied to other domains.
acm857748	A Space-Optimized Tree Visualization	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	85	null	null	2	P573363	10-28-2002	17	This paper describes a new method for the visualization of tree structured relational data. It can be used especially for the display of very large hierarchies in a 2-dimensional space. We discuss the advantages and limitations of current techniques of tree visualization. Our strategy is to optimize the drawing of trees in a geometrical plane and maximize the utilization of displayspace by allowing more nodes and links to be displayed at a limit screen resolution. We use the concept of enclosure to partition the entire display space into a collection of local regions that are assigned to all nodes in tree T for the display of their sub-trees and themselves. To enable the exploration of large hierarchies, we use a modified semantic zooming technique to view the detail of a particular part of the hierarchy at a time based on user's interest. Layout animation is also provided to preserve the mental map while the user is exploring the hierarchy by changing zoomed views.
acm857749	InterRing: An Interactive Tool for Visually Navigating and Manipulating Hierarchical Structures	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	77	null	Radial space-filling hierarchy visualization, multi-focus distortion, structure-based brushing	3	P380981	10-28-2002	32	Radial, space-filling (RSF) techniques for hierarchy visualization have several advantages over traditional node-link diagrams, including the ability to efficiently use the display space while effectively conveying the hierarchy structure. Several RSF systems and tools have been developed to date, each with varying degrees of support for interactive operations such as selection and navigation. In this paper, we describe what we believe to be a complete set ofdesirable operations on hierarchical structures. We then present InterRing, an RSF hierarchy visualization system that supports a significantly more extensive set of these operations than prior systems. In particular, InterRing supports multi-focus distortions, interactive hierarchy reconfiguration, and both semi-automated and manual selection. We show the power and utility of these and other operations, and describe our on-going efforts to evaluate their effectiveness and usability.
acm857750	Beamtrees: Compact Visualization of Large Hierarchies	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	93	null	null	2	P421160	10-28-2002	10	Beamtrees are a new method for the visualization of large hierarchical data sets. Nodes are shown as stacked circular beams, such that both the hierarchical structure as well as the size of nodes are depicted. The dimensions of beams are calculated using a variation of the treemap algorithm. A small user study indicated that beamtrees are significantly more effective than nested treemaps and cushion treemaps for the extraction of global hierarchical information.
acm857751	Graphical Encoding for Information Visualization: An Empirical Study	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	43	null	information visualization, iconic display, user interface design, graphical encoding	3	P335624	10-28-2002	31	Research in several areas provides scientific guidance for use of graphical encoding to convey information in an information visualization display. By graphical encoding we mean the use of visual display elements such as icon color, shape, size, or position to convey information about objects represented by the icons. Literature offers inconclusive and often conflicting viewpoints, including the suggestion that the effectiveness of a graphical encodingdepends on the type of data represented. Our empirical study suggests that the nature of the users' perceptual task is more indicative of the effectiveness of a graphical encoding than the type of data represented.
acm857752	SpaceTree: Supporting Exploration in Large Node Link Tree, Design Evolution and Empirical Evaluation	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	57	null	null	3	P42125	10-28-2002	23	We present a novel tree browser that builds on the conventional node link tree diagrams. It adds dynamic rescaling of branches of the tree to best fit the available screen space, optimized camera movement, and the use of preview icons summarizing the topology of the branches that cannot be expanded. In addition, it includes integrated search and filter functions. This paper reflects on the evolution of the design and highlights the principles that emerged from it. A controlled experiment showed benefits for navigation to already previouslyvisited nodes and estimation of overall tree topology.
acm857753	The Illusion of Perceived Metric 3D Structure	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	51	null	Visualization, affine structure, metric structure, 3D, virtual reality	3	P194288	10-28-2002	12	A large body of results on the characteristics of human spatial vision suggests that space perception is distorted. Recent studies indicate that the geometry of visual space is best understood as Affine. If this is the case, it has far reaching implications on how 3D visualizations can be successfully employed. For instance, all attempts to build visualization systems where users are expected to discover relations based on Euclidean distances or shapes will be ineffective. Because visualization can, and sometimes do, employ all possible types of depth information and because the results from vision research usually concentrates on one or two such types, three experiments were performed under near optimal viewing conditions. The aim of the experiments was twofold: To test whether the earlier findings generalize to optimal viewing conditions and to get a sense of the size of the error under such conditions. The results show that the findings do generalize and that the errors are large. The implications of these results for successful visualizations are discussed.
acm857754	Visualizing Data with Bounded Uncertainty	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	37	null	bounded uncertainty, uncertainty visualization	2	P46262	10-28-2002	17	Visualization is a powerful way to facilitate data analysis, but it is crucial that visualization systems explicitly convey the presence, nature, and degree of uncertainty to users. Otherwise, there is a danger that data will be falsely interpreted, potentially leading to inaccurate conclusions. A common method for denoting uncertainty is to use error bars or similar techniques designed to convey the degree of statistical uncertainty. While uncertainty can often be modeled statistically, a second form of uncertainty, bounded uncertainty, can also arise that has very different properties than statistical uncertainty. Error bars should not be used for bounded uncertainty because they do not convey the correct properties, so a different technique should be used instead. In this paper we describe a technique for conveying bounded uncertainty in visualizations and show how it can be applied systematically to common displays of abstract charts and graphs. Interestingly, it is not always possible to show the exact degree of uncertainty, and in some cases it can only be displayed approximately.
acm857755	Efficient Cartogram Generation: A Comparison	acm857191	Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization (InfoVis'02) 	33	null	null	4	P58960	10-28-2002	8	Cartograms are a well-known technique for showing geography-related statistical information, such as population demographics and epidemiological data. The basic idea is to distort a map by resizing its regions according to a statistical parameter, but in a way that keeps the maprecognizable. In this paper, we deal with the problem of making continuous cartograms that strictly retain the topology of the input mesh. We compare two algorithms to solve the continuous cartogram problem. The first one uses an iterative relocation of the vertices based on scanlines. The second one is based on the Gridfit technique, which uses pixel-based distortion based on a quadtree-like data structure.
acm104428	Self-organized formation of topologically correct feature maps	acm65669	Neurocomputing foundations of research	509	521	null	1	P279588	1988	0	null
acm108361	Task-analytic approach to the automated design of graphic presentations	acm108360	ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG): Volume 10 , Issue 2 (April 1991): 	111	151	automated design, graphic design, graphic user interface, task analysis, visual languages	1	P268092	1991	7	BOZ is an automated graphic design and presentation tool that designs graphics based on an analysis of the task for which a graphic is intended to support. When designing a graphic, BOZ aims to optimize two ways in which graphics help expedite human performance of information-processing tasks: (1) allowing users to substitute simple perceptual inferences in place of more demanding logical inferences, and (2) streamlining users' search for needed information. BOZ analyzes a logical description of a task to be performed by a human user and designs a provably equivalent perceptual task by substituting perceptual inferences in place of logical inferences in the task description. BOZ then designs and renders an accompanying graphic that encodes and structures data such that performance of each perceptual inference is supported and visual search is minimized. BOZ produces a graphic along with a perceptual procedure describing how to use the graphic to complete the task. A key feature of BOZ's approach is that it is able to design different presentations of the same information customized to the requirements of different tasks. BOZ is used to design graphic presentations of airline schedule information to support five different airline reservation tasks. Reaction time studies done with real users for one task and graphic show that the BOZ-designed graphic significantly reduces users' performance time to the task. Regression analyses link the observed efficiency savings to BOZ's two key design principles: perceptual inference substitutions and pruning of visual search.
acm108870	The perspective wall: detail and context smoothly integrated	acm108844	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems Reaching through technology	173	176	null	3	P141917	1991	9	null
acm108883	Cone Trees: animated 3D visualizations of hierarchical information	acm108844	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems Reaching through technology	189	194	null	3	P95917	1991	7	null
acm115768	Tree visualization with tree-maps: 2-d space-filling approach	acm102377	ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG): Volume 11 , Issue 1 (January 1992): 	92	99	null	1	P28685	1992	3	null
acm120788	Interactive graph layout	acm120782	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 4th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	55	64	Information Systems, Mathematics of Computing, DISCRETE MATHEMATICS, Design, Human Factors,user interface	2	P285684	1991	9	null
acm122758	A coherent projection approach for direct volume rendering	acm122718	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 18th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 25 , Issue 4 (July 1991)	275	284	null	2	P134688	1991	10	null
acm122873	To see or not to see- is That the query?	acm122860	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 14th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval	134	141	null	1	P245454	1991	4	null
acm122984	Screen management in hypertext systems with rubber sheet layouts	acm122974	Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia: Proceedings of the third annual ACM conference on Hypertext	91	105	null	3	P187423	1991	10	null
acm130299	DOODLE: a visual language for object-oriented databases	acm130283	International Conference on Management of Data and Symposium on Principles of Database Systems: Proceedings of the 1992 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data: ACM SIGMOD Record: Volume 21 , Issue 2 (June 1992)	71	80	null	1	P117016	1992	12	In this paper we introduce DOODLE, a new visual and declarative language for object-oriented databases. The main principle behind the language is that it is possible to display and query the database with arbitrary pictures . We allow the user to tailor the display of the data to suit the application at hand or her preferences. We want the user-defined visualizations to be stored in the database, and the language to express all kinds of visual manipulations. For extendibility reasons, the language is object-oriented. The semantics of the language is given by a well-known deductive query language for object-oriented databases. We hope that the formal basis of our language will contribute to the theoretical study of database visualizations and visual query languages, a subject that we believe is of great interest, but largely left unexplored.
acm133215	Bead: explorations in information visualization	acm133160	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 15th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval	330	337	visualization, information retrieval, particle systems, N-body problem	2	P194436	1992	7	Bead is a prototype system for the graphically-based exploration of information. In this system, articles in a bibliography are represented by particles in 3-space. By using physically-based modelling techniques to take advantage of fast methods for the approximation of potential fields, we represent the relationships between articles by their relative spatial positions. Inter-particle forces tend to make similar articles move closer to one another and dissimilar ones move apart. The result is a 3D scene which can be used to visualize patterns in the high-D information space.
acm133216	The dynamic HomeFinder: evaluating dynamic queries in a real-estate information exploration system	acm133160	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 15th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval	338	346	task-centered, walkthrough, dynamic queries, case study	2	P48006	1992	9	We designed, implemented, and evaluated a new concept for visualizing and searching databases utilizing direct manipulation called dynamic queries . Dynamic queries allow users to formulate queries by adjusting graphical widgets, such as sliders, and see the results immediately. By providing a graphical visualization of the database and search results, users can find trends and exceptions easily. User testing was done with eighteen undergraduate students who performed significantly faster using a dynamic queries interface compared to both a natural language system and paper printouts. The interfaces were used to explore a real-estate database and find homes meeting specific search criteria.
acm133261	Optimal linear labelings and eigenvalues of graphs	acm133257	Discrete Applied Mathematics: Volume 36 , Issue 2 (April 1992): 	153	168	null	2	P192305	1992	0	null
acm134093	A collision-based model of spiral phyllotaxis	acm133994	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 19th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 26 , Issue 2 (July 1992)	361	368	cactus, flower head, modeling of plants, realistic image synthesis, spiral phyllotaxis	3	P64995	1992	2	null
acm142751	Edit wear and read wear	acm142750	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	3	9	graphical user interfaces, informational physics, interface mechanisms, professional work, reflective practitioner	4	P299195	1992	5	We describe two applications that illustrate the idea of computational wear in the domain of document processing. By graphically depicting the history of author and reader interactions with documents, these applications offer otherwise unavailable information to guide work. We discuss how their design accords with a theory of professional work and an informational physics perspective on interface design.
acm142780	The art of search: a study of art directors	acm142750	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	157	163	cognitive models, navigation, searching, task analysis, user interface models, user models, visual problem solving	2	P262884	1992	5	We formulated a model of visual search by conducting a work flow study and task analysis of art directors as they searched for images to use in an advertisement. The analysis revealed the presence of artistic and image concepts, flexible structures which guide the search and are molded by them. Analysis results were used to build a model-based interface for visual search. Results from presenting the interface to users indicate that the interface has the potential to make significant contributions to the visual search task, both in time savings and as an aid to the creative process.
acm142817	Value bars: an information visualization and navigation tool for multi-attribute listings	acm142750	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	293	294	null	1	P241617	1992	2	null
acm142913	An empirical study of multiple-view software development	acm142868	Software Engineering Symposium on Practical Software Development Environments: Proceedings of the fifth ACM SIGSOFT symposium on Software development environments: ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes: Volume 17 , Issue 5 (December 1992)	47	57	null	2	P261024	1992	9	null
acm143054	Dynamic queries for information exploration: an implementation and evaluation	acm142750	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	619	626	null	3	P47461	1992	3	null
acm146826	Structural analysis of hypertexts: identifying hierarchies and useful metrics	acm146802	ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS): Volume 10 , Issue 2 (April 1992): 	142	180	graph theory, hierarchies, hypertext, metrics, structural analysis	3	P247663	1992	20	Several existing hypertexts are used to illustrate the benefits of each technique. The collection of techniques provides a multifaceted view of the hypertext, which should allow authors to reduce undesired structural complexity and create documents that readers can traverse more easily.
acm147206	Visualizing hyperbolic space: unusual uses of 4x4 matrices	acm147156	Symposium on Interactive 3D Graphics: Proceedings of the 1992 symposium on Interactive 3D graphics	209	214	null	2	P190884	1992	1	null
acm148286	Numerical recipes in C (2nd ed.): the art of scientific computing	null	ISBN: 0-521-43108-5	994	null	null	4	P299801	1992	0	null
acm153577	Information visualization using 3D interactive animation	acm255950	Communications of the ACM: Volume 36 , Issue 4 (April 1993): Special issue on graphical user interfaces	57	71	null	3	P95917	1993	16	null
acm155359	Evaluating 3D task performance for fish tank virtual worlds	acm159161	ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS): Volume 11 , Issue 3 (July 1993): 	239	265	head-coupled display, stereopsis, virtual reality, virtual worlds	3	P160797	1993	24	null
acm160730	Development of a modern OPAC: from REVTOLC to MARIAN	acm160688	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 16th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval	248	259	null	5	P75202	1993	14	Since 1986 we have investigated the problems and possibilities of applying modern information retrieval methods to large online public access library catalogs (OPACs). In the Retrieval Experiment-Virginia Tech OnLine Catalog (REVTOLC) study we carried out a large pilot test in 1987 and a larger, controlled investigation in 1990, with 216 users and roughly 500,000 MARC records. Results indicated that a forms-based interface coupled with vector and relevance feedback retrieval methods would be well received. Recent efforts developing the Multiple Access and Retrieval of Information with Annotations (MARIAN) system have involved used of a specially developed object-oriented DBMS, construction of a client running under NeXTSTEP, programming of a distributed server with a thread assigned to each user session to increase concurrency on a small network of NeXTs, refinement of algorithms to use objects and stopping rules for greater efficiency, usability testing and iterative interface refinement.
acm162510	On the knowledge underlying multimedia presentations	acm162477	Intelligent multimedia interfaces	280	306	null	3	P305620	1993	0	null
acm163402	Discovering shared interests using graph analysis	acm163381	Communications of the ACM: Volume 36 , Issue 8 (August 1993): Special issue on internetworking	78	89	collaboration, directory service, dynamic organization, graph theory, interpersonal communications, resource directory, traffic analysis	2	P198765	1993	5	null
acm163535	Visualization of message passing parallel programs with the TOPSYS parallel programming environment	acm163531	Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing: Volume 18 , Issue 2 (June 1993): Special issue on tools and methods for visualization of parallel systems and computations	118	128	visualization of parallel programs, monitoring, distributed memory computers, communication and sychronization, debugging, integrated programming environment	2	P280281	1993	0	null
acm163550	A methodology for building application-specific visualizations of parallel programs	acm163531	Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing: Volume 18 , Issue 2 (June 1993): Special issue on tools and methods for visualization of parallel systems and computations	258	264	null	2	P146108	1993	4	null
acm166125	Pad: an alternative approach to the computer interface	acm166117	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 20th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques	57	64	null	2	P159548	1993	14	In this paper we describe the Pad interface. We discuss how to efficiently implement its graphical aspects, and we illustrate some of our initial applications.
acm166126	Toolglass and magic lenses: the see-through interface	acm166117	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 20th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques	73	80	button, control panel, lens, macro, menu, multi-hand, transparent, viewing filter	5	P77911	1993	15	null
acm168647	Animation: from cartoons to the user interface	acm168642	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 6th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	45	55	Self, animation, cartoons, motion blur, user interfaces	2	P28374	1993	15	null
acm168650	Stretching the rubber sheet: a metaphor for viewing large layouts on small screens	acm168642	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 6th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	81	91	graphical visualization, information visualization, interactive systems, interface metaphors	4	P186929	1993	5	null
acm168651	Algorithm animation using 3D interactive graphics	acm168642	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 6th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	93	100	D graphics, algorithm animation, information visualization, program visualization	2	P187299	1993	3	null
acm168657	Windows on the world: 2D windows for 3D augmented reality	acm168642	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 6th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	145	155	X11, augmented reality, head-mounted displays, hypertext/hypermedia, mobile computing, portable computers, virtual reality, virtual worlds, window systems	4	P269824	1993	11	null
acm168658	A toolset for navigation in virtual environments	acm168642	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 6th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	157	165	cognitive maps, navigation, orientation, virtual worlds	2	P250177	1993	3	null
acm168818	Media-based navigation for hypermedia systems	acm168750	Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia: Proceedings of the fifth ACM conference on Hypertext	159	173	hypermedia database, indexing, information retrieval, media-based navigation, pattern matching	4	P164140	1993	5	null
acm168823	Exploring large hyperdocuments: fisheye views of nested networks	acm168750	Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia: Proceedings of the fifth ACM conference on Hypertext	192	205	fisheye views, graphs, navigation, nested hypertext networks, overviews	1	P77263	1993	17	null
acm169209	The cost structure of sensemaking	acm169059	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	269	276	cost structure, information access, learning loop, representation search, representation shift, sensemaking	4	P59313	1993	3	We analyze sensemaking tasks and develop a model of the cost structure of sensemaking. We discuss implications for the integrated design of user interfaces, representational tools, and information retrieval systems.
acm169426	The limits of expert performance using hierarchic marking menus	acm169059	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	482	487	accelerators, gestures, input devices, marking menus, pen based input, pie menus	2	P98829	1993	6	A marking menu allows a user to perform a menu selection by either popping-up a radial (or pie) menu, or by making a straight mark in the direction of the desired menu item without popping-up the menu. A hierarchic marking menu uses hierarchic radial menus and "zig-zag" marks to select from the hierarchy. This paper experimentally investigates the bounds on how many items can be in each level, and how deep the hierarchy can be, before using a marking to select an item becomes too slow or prone to errors.
acm170095	InfoCrystal: a visual tool for information retrieval &amp; management	acm170088	Conference on Information and Knowledge Management: Proceedings of the second international conference on Information and knowledge management	11	20	graphical user interface, human factors, information retrieval, information visualization, visual query language	1	P20144	1993	8	null
acm172250	A graphical query interface based on aggregation/generalization hierarchies	acm172247	Information Systems: Volume 18 , Issue 4 (June 1993): 	215	232	null	2	P300239	1993	0	null
acm180173	A review and taxonomy of distortion-oriented presentation techniques	acm180171	ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI): Volume 1 , Issue 2 (June 1994): 	126	160	Perspective Wall, bifocal displays, distortion-oriented presentation, fisheye views, focus + context techniques, graphical interfaces, information visualization, presentation techniques	2	P303426	1994	14	One of the common problems associated with large computer-based information systems is the relatively small window through which an information space can be viewed. Increasing interest in recent years has been focused on the development of distortion-oriented presentation techniques to address this problem. However, the growing number of new terminologies and techniques developed have caused considerable confusion to the graphical user interface designer, consequently making the comparison of these presentation techniques and generalization of empirical results of experiments with them very difficult, if not impossible. This article provides a taxonomy of distortion-oriented techniques which demonstrates clearly their underlying relationships. A unified theory is presented to reveal their roots and origins. Issues relating to the implementation and performance of these techniques are also discussed.
acm180923	An implicit surface polygonizer	acm180895	Academic Press Graphics Gems Series: Graphics gems IV	324	349	null	1	P150698	1994	0	null
acm187157	Visualization using timelines	acm186258	International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis: Proceedings of the 1994 international symposium on Software testing and analysis	125	137	null	1	P96398	1994	13	A timeline is a linear, graphical visualization of events over time. For example, in concurrent application, events would represent state changes for some system object (such as a task or variable). A timeline display generator creates the graphical visualization from some record of events. This paper reports on a model for timeline display generators based on a formal model of event history and the objectives of timeline visualization. In this model, any timeline display generator is completely described through the definition of a set of mathematical functions. The exact characteristics and flexibility of a particular implementation of a timeline display generator, depends on the way in which these functions have been implemented. The current prototype, xtg, (Timeline Display Generator for X-windows) serves as an example implementation of these ideas. Characteristics of xtg are presented, and its use in the analysis of a real-world client-server application is discussed. Xtg has been applied to several other applications to-date and is being applied by several telecommunications companies to areas ranging from software process analysis to call trace data analysis.
acm187170	A high performance Interactive Image Spreadsheet (IISS)	acm187156	Computers in Physics: Volume 8 , Issue 3 May/June 1994: 	325	342	null	4	P4486	1994	0	null
acm188563	LyberWorld-a visualization user interface supporting fulltext retrieval	acm188490	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 17th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval	249	259	null	3	P194778	1994	10	null
acm189245	Hypothesis-Driven Constructive Induction in AQ17-HCI: A Method and Experiments	acm189243	Machine Learning: Volume 14 , Issue 2 (February 1994): Special issue on evaluating and changing representation	139	168	Concept learning, constructive induction, decision lists, decision rules, decision trees, diagrammatic visualization	2	P135155	1994	0	A hypothesis-driven constructive induction method changes the concept representation spaces in the process of the concept learning. The changes involve expansion and contraction of the representation space, and are based on the analysis of consecutively created inductive hypotheses.
acm191095	Virtual images: interactive visualization of distributed object-oriented systems	acm191080	Conference on Object Oriented Programming Systems Languages and Applications: Proceedings of the ninth annual conference on Object-oriented programming systems, language, and applications: ACM SIGPLAN Notices: Volume 29 , Issue 10 (October 1994)	65	84	null	2	P137011	1994	6	We propose to use 3D interactive animations for representing large numbers of objects, complex relationships, and dynamic execution of concurrent activities. These innovative graphical representations, that we call virtual images , provide a consistent and intuitive solution for integrating various functionalities, considerably increasing the amount of information processed by the user. This technique has been successfully applied without specific hardware, demonstrating the feasibility of such interfaces on non specialized workstations.
acm191676	Designing Workscape: an interdisciplinary experience	acm191666	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems celebrating interdependence	10	15	documents, interdisciplinary, interdisciplinary Adobe Acrobat QuickTime Windows Media Player Real Player	1	P148747	1994	1	null
acm191682	Using aggregation and dynamic queries for exploring large data sets	acm191666	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems celebrating interdependence	23	29	data exploration, data visualization, graphics presentation, intelligent interfaces, interactive techniques, large data sets	2	P131144	1994	6	null
acm191715	Creating charts by demonstration	acm191666	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems celebrating interdependence	106	111	business charts, data visualization, demonstrational interfaces, interactive techniques	3	P31915	1994	16	null
acm191719	Interactive graphic design using automatic presentation knowledge	acm191666	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems celebrating interdependence	112	117	automatic presentation systems, data visualization, design environments, graphic design, intelligent interfaces, interactive techniques	4	P270271	1994	9	null
acm191774	The movable filter as a user interface tool	acm191666	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems celebrating interdependence	306	312	editing, graphics, lens, macro, transparent, viewing filter, visualization	3	P194963	1994	15	null
acm191775	Visual information seeking: tight coupling of dynamic query filters with starfield displays	acm191666	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems celebrating interdependence	313	317	database query, dynamic queries, information seeking, starfield displays, tight coupling	2	P47461	1994	9	null
acm191776	The table lens: merging graphical and symbolic representations in an interactive focus + context visualization for tabular information	acm191666	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems celebrating interdependence	318	322	exploratory data analysis, fisheye technique, focus+context technique, graphical representations, information visualization, relational tables, spreadsheets, tables	2	P238722	1994	6	null
acm191778	Multitrees: enriching and reusing hierarchical structure	acm191666	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems celebrating interdependence	330	336	directed graphs, graphical browsers, hierarchies, hypertext structures, information graphs, representation, reuse	2	P95484	1994	6	null
acm191786	A taxonomy of see-through tools	acm191666	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems celebrating interdependence	358	364	button, control panel, lens, macro, menu, multihand, transparent, user interface, viewing filter	5	P77911	1994	14	null
acm191790	The alphaslider: a compact and rapid selector	acm191666	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems celebrating interdependence	365	371	Alphaslider, dynamic queries, menus, selection technology, widget	2	P47461	1994	12	null
acm192190	Spreadsheets for images	acm192161	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 21st annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques	139	146	data visualization, flow charts, spreadsheets, user interfaces, visual programming languages	1	P187458	1994	1	Compared to flow chart visualization systems, spreadsheets are more expressive, morescalable, and easier to program. Compared to conventional numerical spreadsheets, spreadsheets for images pose several unique design problems: larger formulas, longer computation times, and more complicated intercelldependencies. In response to these problems, we have extended the spreadsheet paradigm in three ways: formulas can display their results anywhere in the spreadsheet, cells can be selectively disabled, and multiple cells can be edited at once. We discuss these extensions and their implications, and we also point out some unexpected uses for our spreadsheets: as a visual database browser, as a graphical user interface builder, as a smart clipboard for the desktop, and as a presentation tool.
acm192313	Data structures for dynamic queries: an analytical and experimental evaluation	acm192309	AVI: Proceedings of the workshop on Advanced visual interfaces	1	11	null	2	P291541	1994	14	This paper evaluates four data structures, the multilist, the grid file, k-d tree and the quad tree used to organize data in high speed storage for dynamic queries. The effect of factors like size, distribution and dimensionality of data on the storage overhead and the speed of search is explored. Analytical models for estimating the storage and the search overheads are presented, and verified to be correct by empirical data. Results indicate that multilists are suitable for small (few thousand points) data sets irrespective of the data distribution. For large data sets the grid files are excellent for uniformly distributed data, and trees are good for skewed data distributions. There was no significant difference in performance between the tree structures.
acm192357	Automatic layout based on formal semantics	acm192309	AVI: Proceedings of the workshop on Advanced visual interfaces	231	233	null	2	P280938	1994	2	In this short paper we describe a knowledge-based automatic visualisation approach. The visualisation principle is to see the layout problem as an organisation process. Data regularities which can be described in terms of formal semantics as well as structural properties are the basic components for the construction of the data organisation. This organisation can be translated into the visual organisation of the final presentation.
acm192429	Galaxy of news: an approach to visualizing and understanding expansive news landscapes	acm192426	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 7th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	3	12	D interactive graphics, abstracted information spaces, information interaction design, information space design, information visualization, pyramidal information structures	1	P74380	1994	6	The Galaxy of News system embodies an approach to visualizing large quantities of independently authored pieces of information, in this case news stories. At the heart of this system is a powerful relationship construction engine that constructs an associative relation network to automatically build implicit links between related articles. To visualize these relationships, and hence the news information space, the Galaxy of News uses pyramidal structuring and visual presentation, semantic zooming and panning, animated visual cues that are dynamically constructed to illustrate relationships between articles, and fluid interaction in a three dimensional information space to browse and search through large databases of news articles. The result is a tool that allows people to quickly gain a broad understanding of a news base by providing an abstracted presentation that covers the entire information base, and through interaction, progressively refines the details of the information space. This research has been generalized into a model for news access and visualization to provide automatic construction of news information spaces and derivation of an interactive news experience.
acm192430	Laying out and visualizing large trees using a hyperbolic space	acm192426	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 7th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	13	14	fisheye display, focus+context technique, hierarchy display, information visualization	2	P144705	1994	1	We present a new focus+context (fisheye) scheme for visualizing and manipulating large hierarchies. The essence of our approach is to lay out the hierarchy uniformly on the hyperbolic plane and map this plane onto a circular display region. The projection onto the disk provides a natural mechanism for assigning more space to a portion of the hierarchy while still embedding it in a much larger context. Change of focus is accomplished by translating the structure on the hyperbolic plane, which allows a smooth transition without compromising the presentation of the context.
acm192434	Powers of ten thousand: navigating in large information spaces	acm192426	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 7th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	15	16	null	1	P109606	1994	3	How would you interactively browse a very large display space, for example, a street map of the entire United States? The traditional solution is zoom and pan . But each time a zoom-in operation takes place, the context from which it came is visually lost. Sequential applications of the zoom-in and zoom-out operations may become tedious. This paper proposes an alternative technique, the macroscope , based on zooming and planning in multiple translucent layers. A macroscope display should comfortably permit browsing continuously on a single image, or set of images in multiple resolutions, on a scale of at least 1 to 10,000.
acm192435	Pad++: a zooming graphical interface for exploring alternate interface physics	acm192426	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 7th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	17	26	authoring, hypertext, information navigation, information physics, information visualization, interactive user interfaces, multiscale interfaces, zooming interfaces	2	P28811	1994	12	We describe the current status of Pad++, a zooming graphical interface that we are exploring as an alternative to traditional window and icon-based approaches to interface design. We discuss the motivation for Pad++, describe the implementation, and present prototype applications. In addition, we introduce an informational physics strategy for interface design and briefly compare it with metaphor-based design strategies.
acm192437	Reconnaissance support for juggling multiple processing options	acm192426	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 7th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	27	28	data visualisation, direct manipulation, dynamic query, graphical user interfaces, interaction techniques, visual programming	1	P21240	1994	2	A large proportion of computer-supported tasks-such as design exploration, decision analysis, data presentation, and many kinds of retrieval-can be characterised as user-driven processing of a body of data in search of an outcome that satisfies the user . Clearly such tasks can never be automated fully, but few existing tools offer support for mechanising more than the simplest repetitive aspects of the search. Reconnaissance facilities, in which the computer produces summary reports from exploration in directions suggested by the user, can save the user time and effort by revealing which areas are the most deserving of detailed investigation. The time users are prepared to spend on searching will be more effectively used, improving the likelihood of finding solutions that really meet their needs rather than merely being the first to appear satisfactory. This note describes an implemented example of reconnaissance, based on the parallel coordinates presentation technique.
acm192449	An architecture for an extensible 3D interface toolkit	acm192426	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 7th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	59	67	constraints, delegation, direct manipulation, interaction techniques, user interface toolkits, visual programming	3	P187586	1994	15	This paper presents the architecture for an extensible toolkit used in construction and rapid prototyping of three dimensional interfaces, interactive illustrations, and three dimensional widgets. The toolkit provides methods for the direct manipulation of 3D primitives which can be linked together through a visual programming language to create complex constrained behavior. Features of the toolkit include the ability to visually build, encapsulate, and parameterize complex models, and impose limits on the models. The toolkit's constraint resolution technique is based on a dynamic object model similar to those in prototype delegation object systems. The toolkit has been used to rapidly prototype tools for mechanical modelling, scientific visualization, construct 3D widgets, and build mathematical illustrations.
acm192451	D widgets for exploratory scientific visualization	acm192426	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 7th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	69	70	D user interface, scientific visualization	2	P160097	1994	3	Scientists use a variety of visualization techniques to help understand computational fluid dynamics (CFD) datasets, but the interfaces to these techniques are generally two-dimensional and therefore are separated from the 3D view. Both rapid interactive exploration of datasets and precise control over the parameters and placement of visualization techniques are required to understand complex phenomena contained in these datasets. In this paper, we present work in progress on a 3D user interface for exploratory visualization of these datasets.
acm192470	Developing calendar visualizers for the information visualizer	acm192426	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 7th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	109	118	D graphics, calendars, detail+context technique, graphical representations, information retrieval, information visualization, interactive animation, translucent shadows	3	P141917	1994	15	The increasing mass of information confronting a business or an individual have created a demand for information management applications. Time-based information, in particular, is an important part of many information access tasks. This paper explores how to use 3D graphics and interactive animation to design and implement visualizers that improve access to large masses of time-based information. Two new visualizers have been developed for the Information Visualizer: 1) the Spiral Calendar was designed for rapid access to an individual's daily schedule, and 2) the Time Lattice was designed for analyzing the time relationships among the schedules of groups of people. The Spiral Calendar embodies a new 3D graphics technique for integrating detail and context by placing objects in a 3D spiral. It demonstrates that advanced graphics techniques can enhance routine office information tasks. The Time Lattice is formed by aligning a collection of 2D calendars. 2D translucent shadows provide views and interactive access to the resulting complex 3D object. The paper focuses on how these visualizations were developed. The Spiral Calendar, in particular, has gone through an entire cycle of development, including design, implementation, evaluation, revision and reuse. Our experience should prove useful to others developing user interfaces based on advanced graphics.
acm192472	Data visualization sliders	acm192426	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 7th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	119	120	dynamic graphics, high interaction, information visualization, selection, thresholding	1	P268230	1994	5	The idea is to show the selected values in relation to the data and its distribution. Furthermore, the selection mechanism may be generalized using a painting metaphor to specify arbitrary, disconnected intervals while maintaining an intuitive user-interface.
acm192835	An Editor's Workbench for an art history reference work	acm192757	Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia: Proceedings of the 1994 ACM European conference on Hypermedia technology	233	238	Editor's Workbench, hypermedia reference work, knowledge-based system, object-oriented data modelling	2	P173344	1994	1	The architecture and some of the realized functionality of a prototype Editor's Workbench that supports the creation and maintenance of an object-oriented publisher's knowledge base is presented. The knowledge base is the repository not only for the actual publication content, but for all the information needed to manage and control the publication process. The concrete application context is an art history reference work. We discuss content acquisition and data modelling aspects of the underlying object network.
acm198376	A classification of visual representations	acm198366	Communications of the ACM: Volume 37 , Issue 12 (December 1994): 	36	49	null	4	P96421	1994	2	null
acm205326	Rich interaction in the digital library	acm205323	Communications of the ACM: Volume 38 , Issue 4 (April 1995): 	29	39	null	8	P238722	1995	18	Effective information access involves rich interactions between users and information residing in diverse locations. Users seek and retrieve information from the sources-for example, file serves, databases, and digital libraries-and use various tools to browse, manipulate, reuse, and generally process the information. We have developed a number of techniques that support various aspects of the process of user/information interaction. These techniques can be considered attempts to increase the bandwidth and quality of the interactions between users and information in an information workspace -an environment designed to support information work (see Figure 1).
acm208346	RMM: a methodology for structured hypermedia design	acm208344	Communications of the ACM: Volume 38 , Issue 8 (August 1995): 	34	44	null	3	P283825	1995	15	In this article we propose the Relationship Management Methodology (RMM) for the design and construction of hypermedia applications. The name "relationship management" stems from our view of hypermedia as a vehicle for managing relationships among information objects.
acm208350	Spatial hypertext: designing for change	acm208344	Communications of the ACM: Volume 38 , Issue 8 (August 1995): 	88	97	null	2	P42092	1995	21	null
acm212334	An empirical study of algorithms for point-feature label placement	acm212332	ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG): Volume 14 , Issue 3 (July 1995): 	203	232	automated cartography, heuristic search, label placement, simulated annealing, stochastic methods	3	P146843	1995	11	A major factor affecting the clarity of graphical displays that include text labels is the degree to which labels obscure display features (including other labels) as a result of spatial overlap. Point-feature label placement (PFLP) is the problem of placing text labels adjacent to point features on a map or diagram so as to maximize legibility. This problem occurs frequently in the production of many types of informational graphics, though it arises most often in automated cartography. In this paper we present a comprehensive treatment of the PFLP problem, viewed as a type of combinatorial optimization problem. Complexity analysis reveals that the basic PFLP problem and most interesting variants of it are NP-hard. These negative results help inform a survey of previously reported algorithms for PFLP; not surprisingly, all such algorithms either have exponential time complexity or are incomplete. To solve the PFLP problem in practice, then, we must rely on good heuristic methods. We propose two new methods, one based on a discrete form of gradient descent, the other on simulated annealing, and report on a series of empirical tests comparing these and the other known algorithms for the problem. Based on this study, the first to be conducted, we identify the best approaches as a function of available computation time.
acm212782	Machine learning: neural and statistical classification	acm212782	Ellis Horwood Series In Artificial Intelligence	289	null	null	4	P68610	1995	0	null
acm214456	Distributed snapshots: determining global states of distributed systems	acm214451	ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS): Volume 3 , Issue 1 (February 1985): 	63	75	Global States, Distributed deadlock detection, distributed systems, message communication systems	2	P152820	1985	5	This paper presents an algorithm by which a process in a distributed system determines a global state of the system during a computation. Many problems in distributed systems can be cast in terms of the problem of detecting global states. For instance, the global state detection algorithm helps to solve an important class of problems: stable property detection. A stable property is one that persists: once a stable property becomes true it remains true thereafter. Examples of stable properties are "computation has terminated," " the system is deadlocked" and "all tokens in a token ring have disappeared." The stable property detection problem is that of devising algorithms to detect a given stable property. Global state detection can also be used for checkpointing.
acm214799	Studying long-term system use	acm213859	Communications of the ACM: Volume 38 , Issue 7 (July 1995): 	61	69	null	2	P150480	1995	12	null
acm215636	Directness and liveness in the morphic user interface construction environment	acm215585	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 8th annual ACM symposium on User interface and software technology	21	28	animation, automatic layout, direct manipulation, directness, live editing, liveness, structural reification, user interface construction, user interface frameworks	2	P144936	1995	14	null
acm215654	SDM: selective dynamic manipulation of visualizations	acm215585	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 8th annual ACM symposium on User interface and software technology	61	70	direct manipulation, interactive techniques, visualizations	4	P195636	1995	14	null
acm215977	The continuous zoom: a constrained fisheye technique for viewing and navigating large information spaces	acm215585	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 8th annual ACM symposium on User interface and software technology	207	215	fisheye view, graphical user interface, hierarchical network, information space, information visualization, navigation, supervisory control systems	4	P174743	1995	12	null
acm215978	dimensional pliable surfaces: for the effective presentation of visual information	acm215585	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 8th annual ACM symposium on User interface and software technology	217	226	D interactions, distortion viewing, information visualization, interface design issues, interface metaphors, screen layout	3	P177594	1995	9	null
acm217311	Visualizing the structure of the World Wide Web in 3D hyperbolic space	acm217306	Virtual Reality Modeling Language Symposium: Proceedings of the first symposium on Virtual reality modeling language	33	38	null	2	P278221	1995	5	null
acm217855	Visualizing real-time multivariate data using preattentive processing	acm217853	ACM Transactions on Modeling and Computer Simulation (TOMACS): Volume 5 , Issue 3 (July 1995): Special issue on graphics, animation, and visualization for simulation environments	190	221	boundary detection, cognitive psychology, curvature, hue, human vision, icon, multivariate data, preattentive, scientific visualization, target detection, visual interactive simulation	3	P47668	1995	16	A new method is presented for visualizing data as they are generated from real-time applications. These techniques allow viewers to perform simple data analysis tasks such as detection of data groups and boundaries, target detection, and estimation. The goal is to do this rapidly and accurately on a dynamic sequence of data frames. Our techniques take advantage of an ability of the human visual system called preattentive processing. Preattentive processing refers to an initial organization of the visual system based on operations believed to be rapid, automatic, and spatially parallel. Examples of visual features that can be detected in this way include hue, orientation, intensity, size, curvature, and line length. We believe that studies from preattentive processing should be used to assist in the design of visualization tools, especially those for which high speed target, boundary, and region detection are important. Previous work has shown that results from research in preattentive processing can be used to build visualization tools that allow rapid and accurate analysis of individual, static data frames. We extend these techniques to a dynamic real-time environment. This allows users to perform similar tasks on dynamic sequences of frames, exactly like those generated by real-time systems such as visual interactive simulation. We studied two known preattentive features, hue and curvature. The primary question investigated was whether rapid and accurate target and boundary detection in dynamic sequences is possible using these features. Behavioral experiments were run that simulated displays from our preattentive visualization tools. Analysis of the results of the experiments showed that rapid and accurate target and boundary detection is possible with both hue and curvature. A second question, whether interactions occur between the two features in a real-time environment, was answered positively.
acm218443	Interactive physically-based manipulation of discrete/continuous models	acm218380	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 22nd annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques	199	208	grammars, interactive techniques, physically-based modeling	3	P200330	1995	12	null
acm218454	Fast multiresolution image querying	acm218380	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 22nd annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques	277	286	content-based retrieval, image databases, image indexing, image metrics, query by content, query by example, similarity retrieval, sketch retrieval, wavelets	3	P43568	1995	6	null
acm223381	IVEE: an environment for automatic creation of dynamic queries applications	acm223355	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems	15	16	database query, dynamic queries, information exploration, information visualization, tight coupling	2	P47461	1995	5	null
acm223394	Pad++: a zoomable graphical interface system	acm223355	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems	23	24	authoring, hypertext, information navigation, information visualization, interactive interfaces, multimedia, multiscale interfaces, navigation, world wide web, zooming	2	P28811	1995	9	null
acm22342	Generalized fisheye views	acm22627	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems: ACM SIGCHI Bulletin: Volume 17 , Issue 4 (April 1986)	16	23	null	1	P89788	1986	0	In many contexts, humans often represent their own "neighborhood" in great detail, yet only major landmarks further away. This suggests that such views ("fisheye views") might be useful for the computer display of large information structures like programs, data bases, online text, etc. This paper explores fisheye views presenting, in turn, naturalistic studies, a general formalism, a specific instantiation, a resulting computer program, example displays and an evaluation.
acm223435	Describing interactive visualization artifacts-DIVA	acm223355	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems	73	74	Visualization, Interactive Graphics	1	P172581	1995	2	null
acm223464	The influence explorer	acm223355	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems	129	130	null	4	P172581	1995	1	null
acm223745	Exploring large tables with the table lens	acm223355	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems	403	404	Information Visualization, Exploratory Data Analysis, Graphical Representations, Focus+context Technique, Fisheye Technique, Tables, Spreadsheets, Relational	2	P238722	1995	1	null
acm223759	LyberWorld: a 3D graphical user interface for fulltext retrieval	acm223355	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems	417	418	null	1	P194778	1995	6	null
acm223812	FastMap: a fast algorithm for indexing, data-mining and visualization of traditional and multimedia datasets	acm223784	International Conference on Management of Data and Symposium on Principles of Database Systems: Proceedings of the 1995 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data: ACM SIGMOD Record: Volume 24 , Issue 2 (May 1995)	163	174	null	2	P48043	1995	24	This is exactly the topic of this paper. We describe a fast algorithm to map objects into points in some k-dimensional space (k is user-defined), such that the dis-similarit ies are preserved. There are two benefits from this mapping: (a) efficient ret rieval, in conjunction with a SAM, as discussed before and (b) visualization and data-mining: the objects can now be plotted as points in 2-d or 3-d space, revealing pot ential clusters, correlations among attributes and other regularities that data-mining is looklng for. We introduce an older method from pattern recognition, namely, Multi-Dimensional Scaling (MDS) [51]; although unsuitable for indexing, we use it as yardstick for our method. Then, we propose a much faster algorithm to solve the problem in hand, while in addition it allows for indexing. Experiments on real and synthetic data indeed show that the proposed algorithm is significantly faster than MDS, (being linear, as opposed to quadratic, on the database size N), while it manages to preserve distances and the overall structure of the data-set.
acm223895	VisDB: a system for visualizing large databases	acm223784	International Conference on Management of Data and Symposium on Principles of Database Systems: Proceedings of the 1995 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data: ACM SIGMOD Record: Volume 24 , Issue 2 (May 1995)		null	null	2	P58960	1995	0	null
acm223911	Information foraging in information access environments	acm223904	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	51	58	Information foraging theory, information access	2	P225001	1995	8	null
acm223912	TileBars: visualization of term distribution information in full text information access	acm223904	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	59	66	null	1	P191918	1995	16	null
acm223934	Space-scale diagrams: understanding multiscale interfaces	acm223904	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	234	241	Zoom views, multiscale interfaces, fisheye views, information visualization, GIS; visualization, user interface components; formal methods, design rationale.	2	P95484	1995	10	null
acm223947	Visualizing complex hypermedia networks through multiple hierarchical views	acm223904	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	331	337	Hypermedia, Overview Diagrams, Information Visualization, Hierarchization	3	P266323	1995	14	null
acm223956	A focus+context technique based on hyperbolic geometry for visualizing large hierarchies	acm223904	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	401	408	Hierarchy Display, Information Visualization, Fisheye Display, Focus+Context Technique	3	P144705	1995	11	null
acm223959	GeoSpace: an interactive visualization system for exploring complex information spaces	acm223904	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	409	414	Interactive techniques, intelligent interfaces, cartography, multi-layer, graphics presentation, activation spreading network 	2	P117142	1995	8	null
acm223960	Enhanced dynamic queries via movable filters	acm223904	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	415	420	viewing filter, lens, database query, dynamic queries, magic lens, visualization	2	P159422	1995	10	null
acm227186	As we may think	acm227181	interactions: Volume 3 , Issue 2 (March 1996): 	35	46	null	1	P290125	1996	0	null
acm22723	Monitoring distributed systems	acm13677	ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS): Volume 5 , Issue 2 (May 1987): 	121	150	Concurrent monitoring, distributed monitoring, dynamic documentation, graphical monitoring	4	P137780	1987	6	Our discussion is based on experience in the development and use of a monitoring system within a distributed programming environment called Jade. Jade was developed within the Computer Science Department of the University of Calgary and is now being used to support teaching and research at a number of university and research organizations.
acm227811	Simplifying data integration: the design of the desert software development environment	acm227726	International Conference on Software Engineering: Proceedings of the 18th international conference on Software engineering	398	407	Desert environment, Desert software development environment, FrameMaker, ToolTalk interface, common editor, context manager, control integration, data integration, fragments, hyperlinks, programming environments, programming tools, software engineering, software tools, virtual files	1	P270242	1996	7	null
acm22950	Automating the design of graphical presentations of relational information	acm22949	ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG): Volume 5 , Issue 2 (April 1986): 	110	141	Automatic generation, composition algebra, effectiveness, expressiveness, graphic design, information presentation, presentation tool, user interface	1	P141918	1986	6	The goal of the research described in this paper is to develop an application-independent presentation tool that automatically designs effective graphical presentations (such as bar charts, scatter plots, and connected graphs) of relational information. Two problems are raised by this goal: The codification of graphic design criteria in a form that can be used by the presentation tool, and the generation of a wide variety of designs so that the presentation tool can accommodate a wide variety of information. The approach described in this paper is based on the view that graphical presentations are sentences of graphical languages. The graphic design issues are codified as expressiveness and effectiveness criteria for graphical languages. Expressiveness criteria determine whether a graphical language can express the desired information. Effectiveness criteria determine whether a graphical language exploits the capabilities of the output medium and the human visual system. A wide variety of designs can be systematically generated by using a composition algebra that composes a small set of primitive graphical languages. Artificial intelligence techniques are used to implement a prototype presentation tool called APT (A Presentation Tool), which is based on the composition algebra and the graphic design criteria.
acm229763	How not to lie with visualization	acm229737	Computers in Physics: Volume 10 , Issue 3 May/June 1996: 	268	273	null	3	P29735	1996	0	null
acm230563	High-speed visual estimation using preattentive processing	acm230562	ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI): Volume 3 , Issue 2 (June 1996): 	107	135	Munsell, boundary detection, cognitive psychology, color, estimation, human vision, icon, multidimensional data, orientation, preattentive, scientific visualization, target detection	3	P47668	1996	5	A new method is presented for performing rapid and accurate numerical estimation. The method is derived from an area of human cognitive psychology called preattentive processing. Preattentive processing refers to an initial organization of the visual field based on cognitive operations believed to be rapid, automatic, and spatially parallel. Examples of visual features that can be detected in this way include hue, intensity, orientation, size, and motion. We beleive that studies from preattentive vision should be used to assist in the design of visualization tools, especially those for which high-speed target detection, boundary identification, and region detection are important. In our present study, we investigated two known preattentive features (hue and orientation) in the context of a new task (numerical estimation) in order to see whether preattentive estimation was possible. Our experiments tested displays that were designed to visualize data from salmon migration simulations. The results showed that rapid and accurate estimation was indeed possible using either hue or orientation. Furthermore, random variation in one of these features resulted in no interference when subjects estimated the percentage of the other. To test the generality of our results, we varied two important display parameters-display duration and feature difference-and found boundary conditions for each. Implications of our results for application to real-world data and tasks are discussed.
acm230577	Navigating hierarchically clustered networks through fisheye and full-zoom methods	acm230562	ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI): Volume 3 , Issue 2 (June 1996): 	162	188	data acquisition, fisheye views, hierarchically clustered graphs, information visualization, supervisory control	7	P69536	1996	14	In contrast, fisheye views, generated by the "variable-zoom" algorithm described in this article, provide information about higher levels as well. Subjects using both viewing methods were given problem-solving tasks requiring them to navigate a network, in this case, a simulated telephone system, and to reroute links in it. Results suggest that the greater context provided by fisheye views significantly improved user performance. Users were quicker to complete their task and made fewer unnecessary navigational steps through the hierarchy. This validation of fisheye views in important for designers of interfaces to complicated monitoring systems, such as control rooms for supervisory control and data acquistion systems, where efficient human performance is often critical. However, control room operators remained concerned about the size and visibility tradeoffs between the fine room operators remained concerned about the size and visibility tradeoffs between the fine detail provided by full-zoom techniques and the global context supplied by fisheye views. Specific interface feaures are required to reconcile the differences.
acm233315	IDEA: interactive data exploration and analysis	acm233269	International Conference on Management of Data and Symposium on Principles of Database Systems: Proceedings of the 1996 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data: ACM SIGMOD Record: Volume 25 , Issue 2 (June 1996)	24	34	null	3	P225212	1996	0	null
acm233324	BIRCH: an efficient data clustering method for very large databases	acm233269	International Conference on Management of Data and Symposium on Principles of Database Systems: Proceedings of the 1996 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data: ACM SIGMOD Record: Volume 25 , Issue 2 (June 1996)	103	114	null	3	P282032	1996	1	null
acm233333	Implementing data cubes efficiently	acm233269	International Conference on Management of Data and Symposium on Principles of Database Systems: Proceedings of the 1996 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data: ACM SIGMOD Record: Volume 25 , Issue 2 (June 1996)	205	216	null	3	P290421	1996	4	null
acm234423	Software tools and environments	acm234313	ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR): Volume 28 , Issue 1 (March 1996): 	281	284	null	1	P270242	1996	3	null
acm234538	Drawing graphs nicely using simulated annealing	acm234535	ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG): Volume 15 , Issue 4 (October 1996): 	301	331	aesthetics, graph drawing, simulated annealing	2	P248651	1996	12	The paradigm of simulated annealing is applied to the problem of drawing graphs "nicely." Our algorithm deals with general undirected graphs with straight-line edges, and employs several simple criteria for the aesthetic quality of the result. The algorithm is flexible, in that the relative weights of the criteria can be changed. For graphs of modest size it produces good results, competitive with those produced by other methods, notably, the "spring method" and its variants.
acm235579	The algorithmic beauty of plants	acmSERIES10317	Springer Virtual Laboratory Series	228	null	null	2	P228400	1996	0	null
acm237096	Adding imageability features to information displays	acm237091	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 9th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	33	39	imageability, information design, navigation, visualization	3	P194436	1996	15	null
acm237097	FOCUS: the interactive table for product comparison and selection	acm237091	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 9th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	41	50	dynamic queries, focus+context technique, interactive data exploration, spreadsheets, tables	3	P198916	1996	7	null
acm237774	The sciences of the artificial (3rd ed.)	null	ISBN: 0-262-69191-4	231	null	null	1	P109930	1996	0	null
acm238396	Does animation in user interfaces improve decision making?	acm238386	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems common ground	27	34	animation, decision making	1	P49354	1996	0	null
acm238446	The WebBook and the Web Forager: an information workspace for the World-Wide Web	acm238386	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems common ground	111	null	D graphics, World Wide Web, information access, information workspace, user interfaces, workspace	3	P270634	1996	15	null
acm238450	Silk from a sow's ear: extracting usable structures from the Web	acm238386	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems common ground	118	125	World Wide Web, hypertext, information visualization	3	P225001	1996	9	null
acm238489	Scatter/gather browsing communicates the topic structure of a very large text collection	acm238386	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems common ground	213	220	Scatter/Gather, browsing, clustering, information retrieval	4	P225001	1996	9	null
acm238493	LifeLines: visualizing personal histories	acm238386	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems common ground	221	null	history, justice, medical record, overview, personal record, screen design, screen management, timeline, visualization	5	P42125	1996	8	null
acm238526	Reusable hierarchical command objects	acm238386	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems common ground	260	267	amulet, command objects, redo, toolkits, undo, user interface development environment	2	P31915	1996	9	null
acm238587	Externalising abstract mathematical models	acm238386	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems common ground	406	null	interactive graphics, visualization	4	P172581	1996	8	null
acm240405	Extending end-user programming in a visual shell with programming by demonstration and graphical language techniques	null	null		null	null	1	P85248	1996	0	null
acm242229	Machine learning	acm242224	ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR): Volume 28 , Issue 4es (December 1996): Special issue position statements on strategic directions in computing research		null	Supervised learning, reinforcement learning, temporal-difference learning, cognitive architectures	1	P283451	1996	0	null
acm243214	Visualizing search results: some alternatives to query-document similarity	acm243199	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 19th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval	67	75	null	5	P174141	1996	15	null
acm243218	Evaluation of a tool for visualization of information retrieval results	acm243199	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 19th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval	85	92	null	2	P21254	1996	9	null
acm245014	Cheops: a compact explorer for complex hierarchies	acm244979	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 7th conference on Visualization '96	87	null	focus+context techniques, graphical browser, hierarchical representation, information visualization and exploration	3	P173828	1996	8	null
acm245018	The design and implementation of an object-oriented toolkit for 3D graphics and visualization	acm244979	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 7th conference on Visualization '96	93	null	null	3	P299957	1996	9	null
acm245020	Visualization of complex models using dynamic texture-based simplification	acm244979	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 7th conference on Visualization '96	101	null	geometry, interactive, morphing, simplification, space partitioning, textures, visibility culling, visual complexity	1	P58480	1996	10	null
acm245035	A linear iteration time layout algorithm for visualising high-dimensional data	acm244979	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 7th conference on Visualization '96	127	null	force-directed placement, high-dimensional data, layout algorithms, spring models, stochastic algorithms, visualization	1	P194436	1996	12	null
acm245041	Flexible information visualization of multivariate data from biological sequence similarity searches	acm244979	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 7th conference on Visualization '96	133	null	applications of visualization, biomedical visualization, information visualization, multimodal and multidimensional visualization	6	P74503	1996	4	null
acm245042	Multiresolution multidimensional wavelet brushing	acm244979	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 7th conference on Visualization '96	141	null	null	2	P218971	1996	8	null
acm245567	Illustrating transparent surfaces with curvature-directed strokes	acm244979	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 7th conference on Visualization '96	211	null	null	3	P290988	1996	13	This paper describes the perceptual motivation, artistic inspiration and practical implementation of an algorithm for "texturing" a transparent surface with uniformly distributed opaque short strokes, locally oriented in the direction of greatest normal curvature, and of length proportional to the magnitude of the surface curvature in the stroke direction. The driving application for this work is the visualization of layered surfaces in radiation therapy treatment planning data, and the technique is illustrated on transparent isointensity surfaces of radiation dose.
acm245585	UFLOW: visualizing uncertainty in fluid flow	acm244979	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 7th conference on Visualization '96	249	null	animation, flow envelopes, flow visualization, rakes, streamlines, uncertainty glyphs	4	P271764	1996	10	null
acm245597	Choosing effective colours for data visualization	acm244979	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 7th conference on Visualization '96	263	null	null	1	P47668	1996	6	null
acm245890	Dynamic information visualization	acm245882	ACM SIGMOD Record: Volume 25 , Issue 4 (December 1996): 	16	20	null	1	P304694	1996	0	Dynamic queries constitute a very powerful mechanism for information visualization; some universe of data is visualized, and this visualization is modified on-the-fly as users modify the range of interest within the domains of the various attributes of the visualized information. In this paper, we analyze dynamic queries and offer some natural generalizations of the original concept by establishing a connection to SQL. We also discuss some implementation ideas that should make these generalizations efficient as well.
acm245891	Incremental data structures and algorithms for dynamic query interfaces	acm245882	ACM SIGMOD Record: Volume 25 , Issue 4 (December 1996): 	21	24	algorithm, data structure, database, direct manipulation, dynamic query, information visualization, user interface	3	P75845	1996	0	Dynamic query interfaces (DQIs) form a recently developed method of database access that provides continuous realtime feedback to the user during the query formulation process. Previous work shows that DQIs are elegant and powerful interfaces to small databases. Unfortunately, when applied to large databases, previous DQI algorithms slow to a crawl. We present a new approach to DQI algorithms that works well with large databases.
acm253335	DEVise: integrated querying and visual exploration of large datasets	acm253260	International Conference on Management of Data and Symposium on Principles of Database Systems: Proceedings of the 1997 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data: ACM SIGMOD Record: Volume 26 , Issue 2 (June 1997)	301	312	null	8	P181151	1997	4	Our emphasis is on developing an intuitive yet powerful set of querying and visualization primitives that can be easily combined to develop a rich set of visual presentations that integrate data from a wide range of application domains. While DEVise is a powerful visualization tool, its greatest strengths are the ability to interactively explore a visual presentation of the data at any level of detail (including retrieving individual data records), and the ability to seamlessly query and combine data from a variety of local and remote sources. In this paper, we present the DEVise framework, describe the current tool, and report on our experience in applying it to several real applications.
acm253460	MaPS: movement and planning support for navigation in an immersive VRML browser	acm253437	D technologies for the World Wide Web: Proceedings of the second symposium on Virtual reality modeling language	65	null	VRML2, first-class user interface, immersive browser, navigation techniques, user interface metaphors	2	P143674	1997	9	null
acm257364	Interface issues and interaction strategies for information retrieval systems	acm257089	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems common ground	352	353	databases, information retrieval, information systems, interaction strategies, user interfaces	2	P260891	1996	5	null
acm257388	Dynamic timelines: visualizing the history of photography	acm257089	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems common ground	386	387	cinema, interaction design, three-dimensional visualization, visual design	1	P247317	1996	5	null
acm257408	The DeckScape web browser	acm257089	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems common ground	418	419	Mosaic, World-Wide Web, information navigation, interaction techniques, interactive user interfaces	2	P187299	1996	2	null
acm257674	Applying algorithm animation techniques for program tracing, debugging, and understanding	acm257572	International Conference on Software Engineering: Proceedings of the 15th international conference on Software Engineering	456	465	null	2	P266323	1997	8	null
acm257938	Advances in knowledge discovery and data mining	acm257938	ISBN: 0-262-56097-6	611	null	null	4	P286936	1996	0	null
acm258582	Cat-a-Cone: an interactive interface for specifying searches and viewing retrieval results using a large category hierarchy	acm258525	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 20th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval: ACM SIGIR Forum: Volume 31 , Issue SI	246	255	null	2	P191918	1997	31	null
acm258591	Using semantic contents and WordNet in image retrieval	acm258525	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 20th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval: ACM SIGIR Forum: Volume 31 , Issue SI	286	295	null	5	P302830	1997	16	null
acm258592	Autonomous interface agents	acm258549	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	67	74	Web, agents, autonomous agents, browsing, interface agents, learning, search	1	P109606	1997	8	null
acm258796	Illustrating surface shape in volume data via principal direction-driven 3D line integral convolution	acm258734	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 24th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques	109	116	isosurfaces, line integral convolution, principal directions, shape representation, solid texture, stroke textures, transparent surfaces, visualization, volume rendering	1	P290988	1997	18	null
acm258803	Characterizing interactive externalizations	acm258549	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	375	382	interactive graphics, taxonomy, visualization	1	P172581	1997	26	null
acm258866	KidPad: a design collaboration between children, technologists, and educators	acm258549	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	463	470	KidPad, Pad++, children, cooperative design, design techniques, educational applications, evaluation, participatory design, social issues	5	P15525	1997	9	null
acm260138	A taxonomy of graphical presentation	acm259964	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: INTERACT '93 and CHI '93 conference companion on Human factors in computing systems	113	114	Graphical presentation, taxonomy	1	P246545	1993	3	null
acm260431	Visual information seeking using the FilmFinder	acm259963	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems	433	434	Information Retrieval, Dynamic queries, Video-On-Demand	2	P47461	1994	3	null
acm260433	The attribute explorer	acm259963	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Conference companion on Human factors in computing systems	435	436	Information Visualization, interactive graphs	4	P172581	1994	2	null
acm260748	Using C++ template metaprograms	acm260627	Sigs Reference Library Series: C++ gems	459	473	null	1	P283259	1996	1	Although this technique might seem just like a cute C++ trick, it becomes powerful when combined with normal C++ code. In this hybrid approach, source code contains two programs: the normal C++ run-time program, and a template metaprogram which runs at compile time. Template metaprograms can generate useful code when interpreted by the compiler, such as a massively inlined algorithm -- that is, an implementation of an algorithm which works for a specific input size, and has its loops unrolled. This results in large speed increases for many applications.
acm260799	Modelling and visualizing multiple spatial uncertainties	acm260786	Computers &amp; Geosciences: Volume 23 , Issue 4 (May 1997): Special issue on exploratory cartographic visualization	397	408	GIS, fuzzy, slope stability modelling, uncertainty, visualization	2	P285087	1997	0	null
acm261082	Self-organizing maps	acmSERIES10274	Springer Series In Information Sciences	426	null	null	1	P279588	1997	0	null
acm263545	An interactive visual query environment for exploring data	acm263407	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 10th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	189	198	Direct manipulation, queries, information visualization, visual query language	3	P190105	1997	7	null
acm264657	Drawing graphs to convey proximity: an incremental arrangement method	acm264645	ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI): Volume 4 , Issue 3 (September 1997): 	197	229	MDS, force-directed, graph drawing, graph layout, multidimensional scaling	1	P147188	1997	6	Graph drawings are increasingly finding their way into user interfaces to convey a variety of relationships. This article deals with rendering graphs to show proximity between vertices by making their configuration (screen) distances reflect their distances in the graph. An arrangement method is described that achieves good drawings at speeds suitable for user interaction on a desktop computer. The method is "incremental" in that it first arranges a small portion of the graph, then arranges successively larger fractions of the graph until a suitable arrangement for the entirety is achieved. The incremental approach not only offers speed improvements, but avoids many of the suboptimal solutions reached with other iterative approaches. Algorithms are described in pseudocode, and results are presented.
acm265453	Navigation and coordination primitives for multidimensional visual browsers	acm265394	Proceedings of the third IFIP WG2.6 working conference on Visual database systems 3 (VDB-3)	360	371	data browsing, hypermedia, magnifying glasses, user interfaces, visual databases, visual programming, wormholes, zooming	8	P15550	1997	0	null
acm266265	Sketching, searching, and customizing visualizations: a content-based approach to design retrieval	acm266260	Intelligent multimedia information retrieval	83	111	null	3	P195636	1997	0	null
acm267052	Constrained 3D navigation with 2D controllers	acm266989	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 8th conference on Visualization '97	175	null	camera control, constrained navigation, navigation, viewing control	2	P17980	1997	15	null
acm267070	GADGET: goal-oriented application design guidance for modular visualization environments	acm266989	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 8th conference on Visualization '97	245	null	Modular Visualization Environments, dataflow paradigm, knowledge base, object-oriented design, taxonomy of visualization techniques, visineers' heuristics and expertise, visualization systems	4	P117266	1997	10	This paper provides an overview of the GADGET guidance mechanism and system architecture, with an emphasis on its knowledge base design. Sample data visualization problems are used to demonstrate the usefulness of the GADGET system
acm267116	DNA visual and analytic data mining	acm266989	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 8th conference on Visualization '97	437	null	data mining, visualization, classification	5	P220392	1997	2	null
acm267120	Visualization of geometric algorithms in an electronic classroom	acm266989	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 8th conference on Visualization '97	455	null	algorithm animation, geometric algorithms, visulaization in education	2	P188881	1997	2	null
acm272980	The visualization toolkit (2nd ed.): an object-oriented approach to 3D graphics	null	ISBN: 0-13-954694-4	645	null	null	3	P298389	1998	0	null
acm274094	Clumping properties of content-bearing words	acm274093	Journal of the American Society for Information Science: Volume 49 , Issue 2 (February 1998): 	102	114	null	3	P2394	1998	0	null
acm274432	Information visualization	acm274430	interactions: Volume 5 , Issue 2 March/April 1998: 	9	15	Information visualization, visualization, World Wide Web, WWW, interaction, perception, usability	3	P206639	1998	3	null
acm274698	Visual task characterization for automated visual discourse synthesis	acm274644	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	392	399	automated design of graphics, visual discourse, visual task characterization	2	P199962	1998	10	null
acm274699	Visualizing the evolution of Web ecologies	acm274644	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	400	407	World Wide Web, documents, hypertext, information ecologies, log file analysis, temporal analysis, visualizaiton	6	P74502	1998	3	Several isualizations have emerged which attempt to visualize all or part of the World Wide Web. Those visualizations, however, fail to present the dynamically changing ecology of users and documents on the Web. We present new techniques for Web Ecology and Evolution Visualization (WEEV). Disk Trees represent a discrete time slice of the Web ecology. A collection of Disk Trees form a Time Tube, representing the evolution of the Web over longer periods of time. These visualizations are intended to aid authors and webmasters with the production and organization of content, assist Web surfers making sense of information, and help researchers understand the Web.
acm274701	DIVA: exploratory data analysis with multimedia streams	acm274644	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	416	423	exploratory data analysis, hypermedia, multimedia, protocol analysis, stream algebra, streams, video	2	P297809	1998	21	DIVA was developed to help us analyze both qualitative and quantitative data collected in our research with French air traffic controllers, including video of controllers at work, audio records of telephone, radio, and other conversations, output from tools such as RADAR, and coded logs based on our observations. Although our emphasis is on exploratory data analysis, DIVA's streams architecture should prove useful for a wide variety of multimedia appliations.
acm275521	A flexible architecture for user-adaptable visualization	acm275519	New Paradigms in Information Visualization and Manipulation: Proceedings of the 1997 workshop on New paradigms in information visualization and manipulation	8	10	information visualization, software architecture, user-interaction	2	P28355	1997	3	When information visualization is being used to support multiple users, two characteristics are important. First, multiple users with different backgrounds have individual information needs and thus require multiple views on the information. Second, to allow users to experiment with the information and the visualization, the visualization must be adaptable. This paper presents a conceptual framework which decouples the generation and presentation of information by means of an intermediate derived model, allowing users to adapt the visualization to their information needs. Additionall, we will discuss a Web-based software architecture which deploys CORBA to allow for dynamic and interactive visualizations
acm275529	Visualizing document authorship using n-grams and latent semantic indexing	acm275519	New Paradigms in Information Visualization and Manipulation: Proceedings of the 1997 workshop on New paradigms in information visualization and manipulation	43	48	clustering, indexing methods, information filtering, linguistic processing	4	P115641	1997	1	An approach to visualizing authorship and writing style of free-form text documents is described. This approach uses n-grams and latent semantic indexing (LSI) to cluster documents according to usage patterns of related n-gram "terms". Latent semantic indexing distributes documents and terms into a relatively low=dimensional space, which can be viewed grpahically using various visualization techniques.
acm275531	Effective visualization of hierarchical graphs with the cityscape metaphor	acm275519	New Paradigms in Information Visualization and Manipulation: Proceedings of the 1997 workshop on New paradigms in information visualization and manipulation	52	57	image generation, display algorithms, computational geometry, objective modeling, methodology, 3D graphs, 3D realism	2	P40574	1997	5	In this paper, we describe an implementation of the cityscape metaphor to visualize trees. The cityscape metaphor is a generalization of barcharts in 3D. Our approach serves for better exploitation of human perception capabilities. To achieve this we employ effective visual cues like node position and size. We determine node positions in terms of perceptual organization. Further, we determine node sites for providing redundant hierarchical information. Redundancy aides in better understanding the tree structure. Finally, we point out some of the advantages of this approach to other spatial metaphors such as cone trees.
acm27624	A specification language for direct-manipulation user interfaces	acm27623	ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG): Volume 5 , Issue 4 (October 1986): Special issue on user interface software	283	317	user interfaces, specification techniques, specification language, human factors, direct manipulation, state transition diagram, user-interface management system (UIMS)	1	P245284	1986	16	Examination of direct-manipulation interfaces reveals that they have a coroutine-like structure and, despite their surface appearance, a peculiar, highly moded dialogue. This paper introduces a specification technique for direct-manipulation interfaces based on these observations. In it, each locus of dialogue is described as a separate object with a single-thread state diagram, which can be suspended and resumed, but retains state. The objects are then combined to define the overall user interface as a set of coroutines, rather than inappropriately as a single highly regular state transition diagram. An inheritance mechanism for the interaction objects is provided to avoid repetitiveness in the specifications. A prototype implementation of a user-interface management system based on this approach is described, and example specifications are given.
acm276377	DataSplash	acm276304	International Conference on Management of Data and Symposium on Principles of Database Systems: Proceedings of the 1998 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data: ACM SIGMOD Record: Volume 27 , Issue 2 (June 1998)	550	552	database visualization, direct-manipulation, visual programming	8	P46262	1998	4	Database visualization is an area of growing importance as database systems become larger and more accessible. DataSplash is an easy-to-use, integrated environment for navigating, creating, and querying visual representations of data. We will demonstrate the three main components which make up the DataSplash environment: a navigation system, a direct-manipulation interface for creating and modifying visualizations, and a direct-manipulation visual query system.
acm276634	Graphical multiscale Web histories: a study of padprints	acm276627	Conference on Hypertext and Hypermedia: Proceedings of the ninth ACM conference on Hypertext and hypermedia links, objects, time and space---structure in hypermedia systems links, objects, time and space---structure in hypermedia systems	58	65	World Wide Web, Web navigation, web browser, usability, Pad++, zooming user interface (ZUI), hypertext, multiscale interfaces, information visualization	5	P248681	1998	11	We performed two usability studies of PadPrints. The first addressed general navigation effectiveness. The second focused on history-related aspects of navigation. In tasks requiring returns to prior pages, user of PadPrints completed tasks in 61.2% of the time required by users of the same browser without PadPrints. We also observed significant decreases in the number of pages acessed when using PadPrints. User found browsing with PadPrints more satisfying than using Netscape alone.
acm276876	Approximate nearest neighbors: towards removing the curse of dimensionality	acm276698	Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing: Proceedings of the thirtieth annual ACM symposium on Theory of computing	604	613	algorithms, preprocessing, locality-sensitive hashing	2	P227759	1998	33	We present two algorithmic results for the approximate version that significantly improve the known bounds: (a) preprocessing cost polynomial in log n and d, and only a mildly exponential preprocessing cost O(n) x O(1/e)^d. Further, applying a classical geometric lemma on random projections (for which we give a simpler proof, we obtain the first known algorithm with polynomial preprocessing and query time polynomial in d and log n. Unfortunately, for small e, the latter is purely theoretical result since the exponent depends on 1/e. Experimental results indicate that our first algorithm offers orders of magnitude improvement on running time over real data sets. Its key ingredient is the notion of locality-sensitive heashing which may be of independent interest; here, we give applications to information retrieval, pattern recognition, dynamic closest-pairs, and fast-clustering algorithms.
acm28737	Object-oriented spreadsheets: the analytic spreadsheet package	acm28697	Conference on Object Oriented Programming Systems Languages and Applications: Conference proceedings on Object-oriented programming systems, languages and applications: ACM SIGPLAN Notices: Volume 21 , Issue 11 (November 1986)	385	390	object-oriented, spreadsheets, user interface	1	P163836	1986	1	The ASP package, a spreadsheet implemented in Smalltalk-80, is discussed. A description of the unique data manipulation features of ASP is given. A discussion of how these features arise from the Smalltalk-80 environment is included, with emphasis on features not common to all object oriented languages.
acm288245	The Gridfit algorithm: an efficient and effective approach to visualizing large amounts of spatial data	acm288216	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the conference on Visualization '98	181	188	interfaces to databases, visualizing geographical data, visualizing large data sets, visualizing spatially referenced data	2	P58960	1998	9	null
acm288247	TOPIC ISLANDS-a wavelet-based text visualization system	acm288216	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the conference on Visualization '98	189	196	information retrieval, information visualization, text visualization, wavelet transform	4	P206995	1998	13	We present a novel approach to visualize and explore unstructured text. The underlying technology, called TOPIC-O-GRAPHY, applies wavelet transforms to a custom digital signal constructed from words within a document. The resultant multiresolution wavelet energy is used to analyze the characteristics of the narrative flow in the frequency domain, such as theme changes, which is then related to overall thematic characteristics of a document using statistical methods. The thematic characteristics of a document can be analyzed at varying degrees of detail, ranging from section-sized text partitions to partitions consisting of a few words. Using this technology, we are developing a visualization system prototype known as TOPIC ISLANDS to browse a document, generate fuzzy document outlines, summarize text by levels of detail and according to user interests, define meaningful subdocuments, query text content, and provide summaries of topic evolution.
acm288250	Continuous cartogram construction	acm288216	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the conference on Visualization '98	197	204	anamorphosis, cartogram, constrained optimization, map transformation, thematic cartography, value-by-area map	2	P68493	1998	3	Area cartograms are used for visualizing geographically distributed data by attaching measurements to regions of a map and sealing the regions such that their areas are proportional to the measured quantities. A continuous area cartogram is a cartogram that is constructed without changing the underlying map topology. We present a new algorithm for the construction of continuous area cartograms as a constrained optimization problem. The algorithm uses a relaxation method that exploits hierarchical resolution, constrained dynamics, and a scheme that alternates goals of achieving correct region areas and adjusting region shapes. It is compared favorably to existing methods in its ability to preserve region shape recognition cues, while still achieving high accuracy.
acm288306	Interactive display of very large textures	acm288216	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the conference on Visualization '98	343	350	bandwidth-limited resource, interactivity, real-time display, texture caching, texture mapping	2	P61019	1998	13	Large textures cause bottlenecks in real-time applications that often lead to a loss of interactivity. These performance bottlenecks occur because disk and network transfer, texture translation, and memory swapping. We present a software solution that alleviates the problems associated with large textures by treating texture as a bandwidth-limited resource rather than a finite resource. As a result the display of large textures is reduced to a caching problem in which texture memory serves as the primary cache for texture data, main memory as the secondary cache, and local disk the tertiary cache. By using this cache hierarchy, applications are able to maintain real-time performance while displaying textures hundreds of times larger than can fit into texture memory.
acm288578	Critical zones in desert fog: aids to multiscale navigation	acm288392	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 11th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	97	106	Pad++, ZTracker, browsing, critical zone analysis, critical zones, information navigation, multiscale, navigation, residue, space-scale diagrams, view-based navigational aids, view-navigation	2	P272369	1998	7	In this paper, we introduce the problem of desert fog, a condition wherein a view of an information world contains no information on which to base navigational decisions. We present a set of view-based navigational aids that allow navigators to find their way through desert fog in multiscale electronic worlds. Prototypes of these aids have been implemented in the Landmarking and ZTracker systems. We introduce the concept of critical zone analysis, a method of grouping objects according to their visibility in views of the information world rather than their spatial layout. This concept was derived from a formal analysis of desert fog using view-navigation theory. Our analysis informally extends view-navigation theory to accommodate spatial multiscale worlds and is detailed in the paper. 
acm288579	MuSE: a multiscale editor	acm288392	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 11th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	107	116	ZUI, authoring, design rationale, graphic editor, information visualization, multiscale interfaces, space scale diagram, zoom views	2	P95484	1998	8	Information worlds are getting ever more vast. We need, not only better environments for dealing with this vast scale, but better tools for authoring information in those environments. This paper describes a new type of tool for authoring objects in infinite pan/zoom (so-called multiscale) environments, like PAD++. Called the MultiScale Editor (MuSE) it provides a direct way to manipulate objects in scale, simplifying important operations for authoring with large, multiscale information worlds.
acm288596	Data mountain: using spatial memory for document management	acm288392	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 11th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	153	162	D user interfaces, desktop VR, document mangement, information visualization, spatial cognition, spatial memory	6	P95918	1998	14	Effective management of documents on computers has been a central user interface problem for many years. One common approach involves using 2D spatial layouts of icons representing the documents, particularly for information workspace tasks. This approach takes advantage of human 2D spatial cognition. More recently, several 3D spatial layouts have engaged 3D spatial cognition capabilities. Some have attempted to use spatial memory in 3D virtual environments. However, there has been no proof to date that spatial memory works the same way in 3D virtual environments as it does in the real world. We describe a new technique for document management called the Data Mountain, which allows users to place documents at arbitrary positions on an inclined plane in a 3D desktop virtual environment using a simple 2D interaction technique. We discuss how the design evolved in response to user feedback. We also describe a user study that shows that the Data Mountain does take advantage of spatial memory. Our study shows that the Data Mountain has statistically reliable advantages over the Microsoft Internet Explorer Favorites mechanism for managing documents of interest in an information workspace.
acm291000	Spatial querying for image retrieval: a user-oriented evaluation	acm290941	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 21st annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval	232	240	image retrieval, user-centered design	3	P142351	1998	13	Epic is an image retrieval system that implements a novel spatial-querying mechanism. A user- centred, task-oriented, comparative evaluation of Epic was undertaken in which two versions of the system--one set up to enable spatial queries only, the other allowing textual queries only--were compared. Use was made of the two systems by design professionals in simulated work task situations, and quantitative and qualitative data collected as indicators of the levels of users satisfaction. Results demonstrated that users often had a mental image of a potentially satisfying picture in mind, that they were happy to express this need in visual terms, and that in doing so they preferred to have access to Epics spatial-querying facility. Success in obtaining statistically significant results appears to support validation of the novel methodological framework adopted.
acm291014	How reliable are the results of large-scale information retrieval experiments?	acm290941	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 21st annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval	307	314	document retrieval, empirical study, reliability	1	P151647	1998	9	Two stages in measurement of techniques for information retrieval are gathering of documents for relevance assessment and use of the assessments to numerically evaluate effectiveness. We consider both of these stages in the context of the TREC experiments, to determine whether they lead to measurements that are trustworthy and fair. Our detailed empirical investigation of the TREC results shows that the measured relative performance of systems appears to be reliable, but that recall is overestimated: it is likely that many relevant documents have not been found. We propose a new pooling strategy that can significantly increase the number of relevant documents found for given effort, without compromising fairness.
acm293061	Visual exploration of uncertainty in remote-sensing classification	acm293055	Computers &amp; Geosciences: Volume 24 , Issue 4 (May 1998): Special issue on computers, geoscience and geocomputation	335	343	remote sensing classification, uncertainty, visualisation	3	P86368	1998	0	null
acm299477	Sequence homology detection through large scale pattern discovery	acm299432	Annual Conference on Research in Computational Molecular Biology: Proceedings of the third annual international conference on Computational molecular biology	164	173	pattern discovery, statistical framework	5	P21445	1999	1	We describe a new approach for identifying sequence similarity between a query sequence and a database of proteins. The central idea is the use of a set ofpattems obtained from the underlying database through an one-time computation. These patterns are subsequently searched for on every query sequence presented to the system. A pattern matched by a region of the query pinpoints to a potential local similarity between that region and all the database sequences also matching that pattern. By using a set of prudently chosen patterns, the tool presented in this work is able to discover weak but biologically important similarities. 
acm300683	Graphics and graphic information processing	acm300679	Readings in information visualization using vision to think	62	65	automatic generation, composition algebra, effectiveness, expressiveness, graphic design, information presentation, presentation tool, user interface Adobe Acrobat QuickTime Windows Media Player Real Player	1	P120437	1999	0	null
acm300752	Navigating large networks with hierarchies	acm300679	Readings in information visualization using vision to think	207	214	network visualization, network analysis	2	P268230	1999	2	This paper is aimed at the exploratory visualization of networks where there is a strength or weight associated with each link, and makes use of any hierarchy present on the nodes to aid the investigation of large networks. it describes a method of placing nodes on the plane that gives meaning to their relative positions. The paper discusses how linking and interaction principles aid the user in the exploration. Two examples are given; one of electronic mail communication over eight months within a department, another concerned with changes to a large section of a computer program.
acm300803	Visualising cyberspace: information visualisation in the Harmony Internet browser	acm300679	Readings in information visualization using vision to think	493	502	WWW, Internet, information systems, information visualization	1	P158895	1999	15	The explosive growth of information systems on the Internet has clearly demonstrated the need to organise, filter, and present information in ways which allow users to cope with the sheer quantities of information available. The scope for visualisation of Gopher and WWW spaces is restricted by the limitations of their respective data models. The far richer data model supported by the Hyper-G Internet information system is exploited by its Harmony client to provide a number of tightly-coupled, two- and three-dimensional visualisation and navigational facilities, which help provide location feedback and alleviate user disorientation. 
acm300818	The Document Lens	acm300679	Readings in information visualization using vision to think	562	569	D interaction techniques, graphic presentations, interface metaphors, screen layout, user interface design issues	2	P95917	1999	6	This paper describes a general visualization technique based on a common strategy for understanding paper documents when their structure is not known, which is to lay the pages of a document in a rectangular array on a large table where the overall structure and distinguishing features can be seen. Given such a presentation, the user wants to quickly view parts of the presentation in detail while remaining in context. A fisheye view or a magnifying lens might be used for this, but they fail to adequately show the global context. The Document Lens is a 3D visualization for large rectangular presentations that allows the user to quickly focus on a part of a presentation while continuously remaining in context. The user grabs a rectangular lens and pulls it around to focus on the desired area at the desired magnification. The presentation outside the lens is stretched to provide a continuous display of the global context. This stretching is efficiently implemented with affine transformations, allowing text documents to be viewed as a whole with an interactive visualization. 
acm300826	Using vision to think	acm300679	Readings in information visualization using vision to think	579	581	null	3	P270634	1999	0	null
acm300835	Table Lens as a tool for making sense of data	acm300679	Readings in information visualization using vision to think	597	615	GOMS, database visualization, evaluation, exploratory data analysis, information visualization, multivariate visualization	2	P225001	1999	7	The Table Lens is a visualization for searching for patterns and outliers in multivariate datasets. It supports a lightweight form of exploratory data analysis (EDA) by integrating a familiar organization, the table, with graphical representations and a small set of direct manipulation operators. We examine the EDA process as a special case of a generic process, which we call sensemaking. Using a GOMS methodology, we characterize a few central EDA tasks and compare performance of the Table Lens and one of the best of the more traditional graphical tools for EDA i.e. Splus. This analysis reveals that Table Lens is more or less on par with the power of Splus, while requiring the use of fewer specialized graphical representations. It essentially combines the graphical power of Splus with the direct manipulation and generic properties of spreadsheets and relational database front ends. We also propose a number of design refinements that are suggested by our task characterizations and analyses. 
acm303148	Excentric labeling: dynamic neighborhood labeling for data visualization	acm302979	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems the CHI is the limit	512	519	dynamic labeling, evaluation, label, visualization	2	P136466	1999	9	The widespread use of information visualization is hampered by the lack of effective labeling techniques. An informal taxonomy of labeling methods is proposed. We then describe excentric labeling, a new dynamic technique to label a neighborhood of objects located around the cursor. This technique does not intrude into the existing interaction, it is not computationally intensive, and was easily applied to several visualization applications. A pilot study with eight subjects indicates a strong speed benefit over a zoom interface for tasks that involve the exploration of large numbers of objects. Observations and comments from users are presented.
acm304482	A space based model for user interaction in shared synthetic environments	acm304459	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the conference on Human factors in computing systems	43	48	D, CSCW, communication, control, distribution, resource sharing, user interaction, virtual reality, visualization	4	P170419	1993	2	In a distributed shared synthetic environment with provisions for high quality 3D visualization and interaction, it is possible to implement a powerful variant of a roomslspace metaphor based on the concept of presence or proximity between participants in 3D space. This kind of model can be used as an interface between the user and the computer, for overview and control of applications, tile systems, networks and ofher computer resources, as well as for communication and collaboration with other users in the networked environment. We model proximity with a geometric volume of the immediate surroundings, [he aura, of the participants representation in the synthetic environment. This proximity, or aura, is used to establish presence at meetings, to establish communication charnels and to provide interaction. 
acm304503	Do algorithm animations assist learning? an empirical study and analysis	acm304459	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the conference on Human factors in computing systems	61	66	algorithm animation, empirical studies, software visualization	3	P146109	1993	8	Algorithm animations are dynamic graphical illustrations of computer algorithms, and they are used as teaching aids to help explain how the algorithms work. Although many people believe that algorithm animations are useful this way, no empirical evidence has ever been presented supporting this belief. We have conducted an empirical study of a priority queue algorithm animation, and the studys results indicate that the animation only slightly assisted student understanding. In this article, we analyze those results and hypothesize why algorithm animations may not be as helpful as was initially hoped. We also develop guidelines for making algorithm animations more useful in the future. 
acm304872	Using icons to find documents: simplicity is critical	acm304459	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the conference on Human factors in computing systems	446	453	empirical evaluation, fromal models of the user, icons, screen design	1	P196535	1993	5	A common task at almost any computer interface is that of searching for documents, which GUIs typically represent with icons. Oddly, little research has been done on the processes underlying icon search. This paper outlines the factors involved in icon search and proposes a model of the process. An experiment was conducted which suggests that the proposed model is sound, and that the most important factor in searching for files is the type of icons used. In general, simple icons (those discriminable based on a few features) seem to help users, while complex icons are no better than simple rectangles.
acm305097	Interactive Orthogonal Graph Drawing	acm305086	IEEE Transactions on Computers: Volume 47 , Issue 11 (November 1998): 	1297	1309	Graph Drawing, orthogonal graph drawing, interactive orthogonal graph drawing, information visualization, graphical user interface.	2	P10526	1998	4	Many applications require human interaction during the design process. The user is given the ability to alter the graph as the design progresses. Interactive Graph Drawing allows the user to dynamically interact with the drawing of a graph. In this paper, we discuss features that are essential for an interactive orthogonal graph drawing system. We also describe some possible interactive drawing scenarios, present results on two of them, and compare their performance.
acm305265	Knowledge Mining With VxInsight: Discovery ThroughInteraction	acm305260	Journal of Intelligent Information Systems: Volume 11 , Issue 3 Nov./Dec. 1998: Special issue on information visualization the next frontier	259	285	browsing, graphical user interface, information retrieval, information visualization	5	P95381	1998	0	null
acm306624	A texture thesaurus for browsing large aerial photographs	acm306607	Journal of the American Society for Information Science: Volume 49 , Issue 7 (May 1998): Special topic issue artificial intelligence techniques for emerging information systems applications	633	648	null	2	P297313	1998	0	null
acm30861	Experiences with the alternate reality kit: an example of the tension between literalism and magic	acm29933	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI/GI conference on Human factors in computing systems and graphics interface: ACM SIGCHI Bulletin: Volume 17 , Issue SI (May 1987)	61	67	simulations, alternative reality, user interface	1	P239102	1986	9	Even though ARK includes magical features, applications-level users have be trained in a few minutes. Although this paper is about ARK, the tension between literalism and magic raises some interesting questions on its own. Some of these questions are presented briefly in the conclusion.
acm312634	Visualization of search results: a comparative evaluation of text, 2D, and 3D interfaces	acm312624	Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval: Proceedings of the 22nd annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval	3	10	D, 3D, evaluation, information visualization, interface design, text	5	P187565	1999	9	null
acm314338	On distances between phylogenetic trees	acm314161	Symposium on Discrete Algorithms: Proceedings of the eighth annual ACM-SIAM symposium on Discrete algorithms	427	436	null	6	P24614	1997	2	Biological applications require us to extend the nni and linear-cost subtree transfer models to weight phylogenies, where edge weights indicate the length of evolution along each edge. We present a logarithmic ration approximation algorithm for nni and a ration 2 approximation algorithm for linear-cost subtree-transfer, on weighted trees.
acm316229	On power-law relationships of the Internet topology	acm316188	Applications, Technologies, Architectures,and Protocols for Computer Communication: Proceedings of the conference on Applications, technologies, architectures, and protocols for computer communication: ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review: Volume 29 , Issue 4 (October 1999)	251	262	Internet, structure, power-laws	3	P199459	1999	12	Despite the apparent randomness of the Internet, we discover some surprisingly simple power-laws of the Internet topology. These power-laws hold for three snapshots of the Internet, between November 1997 and December 1998, despite a 45% growth of its size during that period. We show that our power-laws fit the real data very well resulting in correlation coefficients of 96% or higher.Our observations provide a novel perspective of the structure of the Internet. The power-laws describe concisely skewed distributions of graph properties such as the node outdegree. In addition, these power-laws can be used to estimate important parameters such as the average neighborhood size, and facilitate the design and the performance analysis of protocols. Furthermore, we can use them to generate and select realistic topologies for simulation purposes.
acm317474	The use of logging data in the design of a new text editor	acm317456	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	93	97	empirical study, user study	1	P197160	1985	5	Many different human factors techniques are available to the designer of a new computer system. This case study examines how one technique, the use of logging data, was used throughout the design of a new text editor which is measurably easy to learn and easy to use. Logging data was used in four areas: keyboard design, the initial design of the editor's command set, refinements made later in the design cycle, and the construction of a system performance benchmark.
acm319355	Hierarchical parallel coordinates for exploration of large datasets	acm319351	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the conference on Visualization '99 celebrating ten years	43	50	hierarchical data exploration, large-scale multivariate data visualization, parallel coordinates	3	P305826	1999	11	Our ability to accumulate large, complex (multivariate) data sets has far exceeded our ability to effectively process them in search of patterns, anomalies, and other interesting features. Conventional multivariate visualization techniques generally do not scale well with respect to the size of the data set. The focus of this paper is on the interactive visualization of large multivariate data sets based on a number of novel extensions to the parallel coordinates display technique. We develop a multiresolutional view of the data via hierarchical clustering, and use a variation on parallel coordinates to convey aggregation information for the resulting clusters. Users can then navigate the resulting structure until the desired focus region and level of detail is reached, using our suite of navigational and filtering tools. We describe the design and implementation of our hierarchical parallel coordinates system which is based on extending the XmdvTool system. Lastly, we show examples of the tools and techniques applied to large (hundreds of thousands of records) multivariate data sets.
acm320410	The ecological approach to text visualization	acm320396	Journal of the American Society for Information Science: Volume 50 , Issue 13 (November 1999): Speical issue on integrating mutiple overlapping metadata standards	1224	1233	null	1	P133851	1999	0	null
acm320618	Quintary trees: a file structure for multidimensional database systems	acm320613	ACM Transactions on Database Systems (TODS): Volume 5 , Issue 3 (September 1980): 	339	353	database system, exact match queries, file maintenance, information retrieval, key, multidimensional space, queries, range search, search	2	P54659	1980	4	In this paper we present a file structure designed for a database system in which four types of retrieval requests (queries) are allowed: exact match,partial match, range, and partial range queries. For a file of N records, each of k keys, the worst-case running times of our search algorithms are bounded above, respectively, by O(k + log N), O(t + 3k-(s + log N)), O(t + (log N)k), and O(t + 3k-s(log N)) where s is the number of keys specified in a partial match (or range) query and t is the number of records retrieved by the query. The fde structure can be built in O(N(log N)k/(k - l)!) time and requires similar storage; by a slight modification, both of these requirements can be reduced to O(N(log N)k-/(k - l)!). We also sketch outlines for inserting and deleting records that require O(k + (log N)k) time, on the average. This structure achieves faster response time than previously known structures (for many of the queries) at the cost of extra storage. 
acm322075	The Complexity of Some Problems on Subsequences and Supersequences	acm322063	Journal of the ACM (JACM): Volume 25 , Issue 2 (April 1978): 	322	336	null	1	P62732	1978	8	null
acm322601	WEST: a Web browser for small terminals	acm320719	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 12th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	187	196	WAP (wireless application protocol), flip zooming, focus+context visualization, hand-held devices, proxy systems, text reduction, web browser	7	P266789	1999	12	We describe WEST, a WEb browser for Small Terminals, that aims to solve some of the problems associated with accessing web pages on hand-held devices. Through a novel combination of text reduction and focus+context visualization, users can access web pages from a very limited display environment, since the system will provide an overview of the contents of a web page even when it is too large to be displayed in its entirety. To make maximum use of the limited resources available on a typical hand-held terminal, much of the most demanding work is done by a proxy server, allowing the terminal to concentrate on the task of providing responsive user interaction. The system makes use of some interaction concepts reminiscent of those defined in the Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), making it possible to utilize the techniques described here for WAP-compliant devices and services that may become available in the near future.
acm325249	Modeling the mighty maple	acm325334	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 12th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 19 , Issue 3 (July 1985)	305	311	blobby surface, bump map, generalized cylinder, interpolation, modeling, ramiform, space curve, spline, texture map	1	P150698	1985	5	A method is presented for representing botanical trees, given three-dimensional points and connections. Limbs are modeled as generalized cylinders whose axes are space curves that interpolate the points A free-form surface connects branching limbs. "'Blobby'" techniques are used to model the tree trunk as a series of non-circular cross sections. Bark is simulated with a bump map digitized from real world bark; leaves are textures mapped onto simple surfaces.
acm329554	Information visualization: perception for design	acmSERIES9819	Morgan Kaufmann Series In Interactive Technologies	438	null	null	1	P49781	2000	0	null
acm330576	Large networks present visualization challenges	acm330572	ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 33 , Issue 3 (August 1999): 	13	15	network visualization	4	P131535	1999	6	There are a variety of standard techniques for managing the display of large data sets. These include sampling the data, sliding, or coalescing semantically chosen subsets or relying on distorted views such as fisheye [8] or hyperbolic [7] projections. Although these methods are useful they clearly do not provide all the answers, especially when analyzing network-based data. In this article, we describe two uncustomary approaches: a project in large-scale graphics and network displays, and an experiment with a novel graphical representation of networks.
acm331781	Virtual environments for geographic visualization: potential and challenges	acm331770	New Paradigms in Information Visualization and Manipulation: Proceedings of the 1999 workshop on new paradigms in information visualization and manipulation in conjunction with the eighth ACM internation conference on Information and knowledge management	35	40	collaboration, interactivity, maps, scientific visualization, virtual reality	8	P12617	1999	9	Virtual environment (VE) technologies have considerable potential to extend the power of information visualization methods, and those of scientific visualization more broadly. Our specific focus here is on VE technologies as a medium for geographic visualization and on some of the challenges that must be addressed if the potential of VE is to be realized in this context.
acm332423	The scent of a site: a system for analyzing and predicting information scent, usage, and usability of a Web site	acm332040	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	161	168	World Wide Web, data mining, dome tree, information foraging, information scent, information visualization, longest repeated subsequences, usability, usage-based layout	3	P74502	2000	6	Designers and researchers of users' interactions with the World Wide Web need tools that permit the rapid exploration of hypotheses about complex interactions of user goals, user behaviors, and Web site designs. We present an architecture and system for the analysis and prediction of user behavior and Web site usability. The system integrates research on human information foraging theory, a reference model of information visualization and Web data-mining techniques. The system also incorporates new methods of Web site visualization (Dome Tree, Usage Based Layouts), a new predictive modeling technique for Web site use (Web User Flow by Information Scent, WUFIS), and new Web usability metrics. 
acm333181	Accessibility of information on the Web	acm333175	intelligence: Volume 11 , Issue 1 Spring 2000: 	32	39	World Wide Web	2	P269352	2000	0	Search engines do not index sites equally, may not index new pages for months, and no engine indexes more than about 16% of the Web. As the Web becomes a major communications medium, the data on it must be made more accessible. 
acm33404	The visual display of quantitative information	null	ISBN: 0-9613921-0-	197	null	null	1	P75580	1986	0	null
acm338266	Pattern discovery on character sets and real-valued data: linear bound on irredundant motifs and an efficient polynomial time algorithm	acm338219	Symposium on Discrete Algorithms: Proceedings of the eleventh annual ACM-SIAM symposium on Discrete algorithms	297	308	null	5	P169891	2000	4	Given an input sequence of data, a motif is a repeating pattern, possibly interspersed with "dont care" characters. The data could be a sequence of characters or sets of characters or even real values. In the first two cases, the number of motifs could potentially be exponential in the size of the input sequence and in the third case there could be infinite number of motifs (assuming two real numbers are equal if they are within some specified delta &gt; 0 of each other). However, it has been shown in some motif based applications, such as multiple sequence alignment [Par98, PFR99], that a small subset of these motifs capture all the relevant information. Also, from an information-theoretic viewpoint, the special motifs represent the sets with low co-relation, hence of higher informational value. In this paper, we show, for any sequence with n characters, there exists only a linear (or no more than 3n) number of these special motifs and every other motif can be constructed from this set. We term these special motifs as irredundant motifs. We also present an efficient polynomial time algorithm to generate these motifs. This bound on the number of useful motifs gives validation to motif-based approaches, since the total number of irredundant motifs does not explode. This result is potentially of significance to most application.
acm345243	A comparison of set-based and graph-based visualisations of overlapping classification hierarchies	acm345513	AVI: Proceedings of the working conference on Advanced visual interfaces	41	50	authors kit, conference publications, guides, instructions	3	P192201	2000	13	The visualisation of hierarchical information sets has been a staple of Information Visualisation since the field came into being in the early 1990's. However, at present, support for visualising the correlations between multiple, overlapping sets of hierarchical information has been lacking. This is despite the realisation that for certain tasks this information is as important as the information that forms the individual hierarchies. In response to this, we have produced two early visualisation prototypes, one based on a graph visualisation, and the other on a set-based metaphor, that endeavour to display such information in a readily perceived form to potential users. The science of botanical taxonomy is used as an example of a field where such a visualisation would be useful, and also as a resource for example information sets that the prototypes can act upon. Technical and perceptual issues involved in the design and implementation of both prototypes are discussed. Following this, informal user testing on both prototypes is described, which utilised user observation techniques to elicit qualitative feedback from the taxonomists. These findings are then used to emphasise the shortcomings and advantages of each prototype, and from these probable issues for future prototyping and development are drawn.
acm345271	Guidelines for using multiple views in information visualization	acm345513	AVI: Proceedings of the working conference on Advanced visual interfaces	110	119	design guidelines, information visualization, multiple views, usability heuristics, user interfaces	3	P199957	2000	16	A multiple view system uses two or more distinct views to support the investigation of a single conceptual entity. Many such systems exist, ranging from computer-aided design (CAD) systems for chip design that display both the logical structure and the actual geometry of the integrated circuit to overview-plus-detail systems that show both an overview for context and a zoomed-in-view for detail. Designers of these systems must make a variety of design decisions, ranging from determining layout to constructing sophisticated coordination mechanisms. Surprisingly, little work has been done to characterize these systems or to express guidelines for their design. Based on a workshop discussion of multiple views, and based on our own design and implementation experience with these systems, we present eight guidelines for the design of multiple view systems.
acm345282	Snap-together visualization a user interface for coordinating visualizations via relational schemata	acm345513	AVI: Proceedings of the working conference on Advanced visual interfaces	128	135	coordination, information visualization, multiple views, relational database, tight coupling, user interface, user study	2	P46258	2000	10	Evaluation of Snap revealed benefits, cognitive issues, and usability concerns. Data savvy users were very capable and thrilled to rapidly construct powerful coordinated visualizations. A snapped overview and detail-view coordination improved user performance by 30-80%, depending on task.
acm345323	Context and interaction in zoomable user interfaces	acm345513	AVI: Proceedings of the working conference on Advanced visual interfaces	227	231	Information Interfaces and Presentation, Interaction techniques	4	P270747	2000	11	ZUIs, especially those that include these new orientation aids, are difficult to use with standard interaction techniques. They provide a large number of commands which must be used frequently and on a changing image. The mouse and its buttons cannot provide a rapid access to all these commands without new interaction techniques. We propose a new type of menu, a control menu, that facilitates the use of ZUIS and which we feel can also be useful in other types of applications.
acm345324	Hierarchical flip zooming enabling parallel exploration of hierarchical visualizations	acm345513	AVI: Proceedings of the working conference on Advanced visual interfaces	232	237	flip zooming, focus+context visualization, hierarchies, information visualization	1	P266789	2000	19	This paper describes hierarchical Flip Zooming, a focus+context visualization technique for hierarchical information sets. It allows for independent focus+context views at each node of the hierarchy and enables parallel exploration of different branches of the hierarchy. Visualization, navigation and interaction in the Flip Zooming technique is described as well as how the technique fits into existing models of information visualization. Examples of applications using the technique are given.
acm345353	A fast multi-scale method for drawing large graphs	acm345513	AVI: Proceedings of the working conference on Advanced visual interfaces	282	285	null	2	P61889	2000	6	Graphs have become an important part of recently proposed user interfaces, hence the relevance of this paper to work on interface issues.
acm345912	Analysis of a local-area wireless network	acm345910	International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking: Proceedings of the 6th annual international conference on Mobile computing and networking	1	10	local-area wireless networks, network analysis	2	P66646	2000	7	While these results are only valid for this local-area wireless network and user community, we believe that similar environments may exhibit similar behavior and trends. We hope that our observations will contribute to a growing understanding of mobile user behavior.
acm346021	Three dimensional visualization of the World Wide Web	acm345966	ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR): Volume 31 , Issue 4es (December 1999): 	1	16	null	8	P269119	1999	11	These include visualizations of Web structure, especially of links, that act as 3D maps; browsing history; searches; evolution of the Web; and the presence and activities of multiple users. We then summarize the different techniques that are employed by these visualizations. We conclude with a discussion of key challenges for the future.
acm351012	Collaborative augmented reality environments: integrating VR, working materials, and distributed work spaces	acm351006	Collaborative Virtual Environments: Proceedings of the third international conference on Collaborative virtual environments	47	56	D workspace, CSCW, roomware, virtual office/project room, virtual reality, working material	7	P202708	2000	13	In this work, we present a new method for displaying stereo scenes, which speeds up the rendering time of complex geometry. We first discuss a scene splitting strategy, allowing us to partition objects to the distant background or the near foreground. Furthermore, wededuce a computation rule for positioning a cutting plane in the scene.
acm352893	A comparative usability evaluation of user interfaces for online product catalog	acm352871	Electronic Commerce: Proceedings of the 2nd ACM conference on Electronic commerce	197	206	e-commerce, electronic catalogs, human-computer interaction, usability evaluation, user interfaces	2	P80040	2000	9	users, who were new to the InfoZoom Interface, but familiar with the Web environment, were studied in their use of one of these catalog types. Performance on both types of interfaces was assessed in terms of search speed, accuracy, efficiency, and user satisfaction. Both interfaces had positive evaluations, but behavioral data and performance data suggest that users valued their interaction with InfoZoom more.
acm354754	Jazz: an extensible zoomable user interface graphics toolkit in Java	acm354401	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 13th annual ACM symposium on User interface software and technology	171	180	Jazz, Pad++, animation, graphics, user interface management systems (UIMS), zoomable user interfaces (ZUIs)	3	P28811	2000	18	To explore the effectiveness of scene graph techniques, we have developed Jazz, a general-purpose 2D scene graph toolkit. Jazz is implemented in Java using Java2D, and runs on all platforms that support Java 2. This paper describes Jazz and the lessons we learned using Jazz for ZUIs. It also discusses how 2D scene graphs can be applied to other application areas.
acm356797	Data Structures for Range Searching	acm356789	ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR): Volume 11 , Issue 4 (December 1979): 	397	409	null	2	P146822	1979	6	This problem is important in itself (having applications in such areas as database systems, statistics, and design automation) and, in addition, serves as a representative of the entire class of multikey searching problems.
acm357310	A Generalization of Algebraic Surface Drawing	acm357306	ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG): Volume 1 , Issue 3 (July 1982): 	235	256	algorithms, performance	1	P131722	1982	1	This paper presents a new algorithm applicable to other functional forms, in particular to the summation of several Gaussian density distributions. The algorithm was created to model electron density maps of molecular structures, but it can be used for other artistically interesting shapes.
acm358464	System response time operator productivity and job satisfaction	acm182	Communications of the ACM: Volume 26 , Issue 11 (November 1983): 	972	986	information systems, response time	2	P239833	1983	0	A relationship was also found between increased response times and reduced job satisfaction.
acm359563	Time clocks and the ordering of events in a distributed system	acm359545	Communications of the ACM: Volume 21 , Issue 7 (July 1978): 	558	565	clock synchronization, computer networks, distributed systems, multiprocess systems	1	P171045	1978	0	The concept of one event happening before another in a distributed system is examined, and is shown to define a partial ordering of the events. A distributed algorithm is given for synchronizing a system of logical clocks which can be used to totally order the events. The use of the total ordering is illustrated with a method for solving synchronization problems. The algorithm is then specialized for synchronizing physical clocks, and a bound is derived on how far out of synchrony the clocks can become.
acm360354	Hierarchical geometric models for visible surface algorithms	acm360349	Communications of the ACM: Volume 19 , Issue 10 (October 1976): 	547	554	geometric models, hidden surface algorithms, hierarchical data structures, visible surface algorithms	1	P131909	1976	7	The geometric structure inherent in the definition of the shapes of three-dimensional objects and environments is used not just to define their relative motion and placement, but also to assist in solving many other problems of systems for producing pictures by computer. By using an extension of traditional structure information, or a geometric hierarchy, five significant improvements to current techniques are possible. First, the range of complexity of an environment is greatly increased while the visible complexity of any given scene is kept within a fixed upper limit. Second, a meaningful way is provided to vary the amount of detail presented in a scene. Third, "clipping" becomes a very fast logarithmic search for the resolvable parts of the environment within the field of view. Fourth, frame to frame coherence and clipping define a graphical "working set," or fraction of the total structure that should be present in primary store for immediate access by the visible surface algorithm. Finally, the geometric structure suggests a recursive descent, visible surface algorithm in which the computation time potentially grows linearly with the visible complexity of the scene.
acm365097	Does organisation by similarity assist image browsing?	acm365024	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	190	197	evaluation, image retrieval, information visualization	4	P160714	2001	7	In current systems for browsing image collections, users are presented with sets of thumbnail images arranged in some default order on the screen. We are investigating whether it benefits users to have sets of thumbnails arranged according to their mutual similarity, so images that are alike are placed together. There are, of course, many possible definitions of "similarity": so far we have explored measurements based on low-level visual features, and on the textual captions assigned to the images. Here we describe two experiments, both involving designers as the participants, examining whether similarity-based arrangements of the candidate images are helpful for a picture selection task. Firstly, the two types of similarity-based arrangement were informally compared. Then, an arrangement based on visual similarity was more formally compared with a control of a random arrangement. We believe this work should be of interest to anyone designing a system that involves presenting sets of images to users.
acm365309	D or not 3D?: evaluating the effect of the third dimension in a document management system	acm365024	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	434	441	D user interfaces, document management, information visualization, spatial memory	2	P18742	2001	6	Several recent research systems have provided interactive three-dimensional (3D) visualizations for supporting everyday work such as file and document management. But what improvements do these 3D interfaces offer over their traditional 2D counterparts? This paper describes the comparative evaluation of two document management systems that differ only in the number of dimensions used for displaying and interacting with the data. The 3D system is heavily based on Robertson et al.'s Data Mountain, which supports users in storing, organizing and retrieving "thumbnail" representations of documents such as bookmarked Web-pages. Results show that our subjects were faster at storing and retrieving pages in the display when using the 2D interface, but not significantly so. As expected, retrieval times significantly increased as the number of thumbnails increased. Despite the lack of significant differences between the 2D and 3D interfaces, subjective assessments showed a significant preference for the 3D interface.
acm365438	An evaluation of space-filling information visualizations for depicting hierarchical structures	acm362757	International Journal of Human-Computer Studies: Volume 53 , Issue 5 (November 2000): Empirical evaluation of information visualizations	663	694	Index Structures, Indexing high dimentional data, multimedia databases, similarity search	1	P146109	2000	2	A number of new index structures and algorithms have been proposed. It has been shown that the new index structures considerably improve the performance in querying large multimedia databases. Based on recent tutorials [Berchtold and Keim 1998], in this survey we provide an overview of the current state of the art in querying multimedia databases, describing the index structures and algorithms for an efficient query processing in high-dimensional spaces. We identify the problems of processing queries in high-dimensional space, and we provide an overview of the proposed approaches to overcome these problems.
acm37086	Brushing scatterplots	acm37085	Technometrics: Volume 29 , Issue 2 (May 1987): 	127	142	direct manipulation interfaces, exploratory anylysis	2	P241419	1987	13	This paper reviews and illustrates a direct manipulation approach to visualization of complex objects called paiidiilg mulliple views. We describe a programming model for direct manipulation in general and for painting in particular, based on simple constraints between entities in an the underlying scientific database and the components of displays used to examine the data. With this model, the original notion of brushing scatterplots is easily extended.
acm372188	WebQuilt: a framework for capturing and visualizing the web experience	acm371920	International World Wide Web Conference: Proceedings of the tenth international conference on World Wide Web	717	724	WebQuilt, log file analysis, usability evaluation, web proxy, web visualization	2	P135425	2001	6	WebQuilt is a web logging and visualization system that helps web design teams run usability tests (both local and remote) and analyze the collected data. Logging is done through a proxy, overcoming many of the problems with server-side and client-side logging. Captured usage traces can be aggregated and visualized in a zooming interface that shows the web pages people viewed. The visualization also shows the most common paths taken through the website for a given task, as well as the optimal path for that task as designated by the designer. This paper discusses the architecture of WebQuilt and also describes how it can be extended for new kinds of analyses and visualizations.
acm372278	MWMD: a module-based workbench for multimedia database programmers and users	acm372252	Kluwer International Series In Engineering And Computer Science: Information organization and databases foundation of data organization	121	132	multimedia database, visual querying, visualization system	4	P306536	2001	0	In January, 1993, a panel of experts in the area of programming languages and compilers met in a one and a half day workshop to discuss the future of research in that area. This paper is the report of their findings. Its purposes are to explain the need for, and benefits of, research in this field-- both basic and applied; to broadly survey the various parts of the field and indicate its general research directions; and to propose an initiative aimed at moving basic research results into wider use.
acm375221	Procedural annotation of uncertain information	acm375213	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the conference on Visualization '00	77	83	annotation, glyphs, procedural generation, uncertainty visualization	2	P316942	2000	5	Uncertainty, however, should not overshadow the data values. Many methods that address the problem of visualizing data with uncertainty can distort the data and emphasize areas with uncertain values. We have developed a method for showing the uncertainty information together with data with minimal distraction. This method uses procedurally generated annotations which are deformed according to the uncertainty information. As another possible technique we propose distorting glyphs according to the uncertainty information.
acm375245	FastSplats: optimized splatting on rectilinear grids	acm375213	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the conference on Visualization '00	219	226	design, measurement, performance, reliability	4	P139655	2000	2	Our approach does not use texture mapping hardware, but supports the whole pipeline in memory. In such an integrated pipeline, we are then able to study the optimization strategies and address image quality issues. While this research is meant for a study of the inherent trade-off of splatting, our renderer, purley in software, achieves 3 to 5 times speedups over a top-end texture hardware (for opaque data sets) implementation. We further propose a way of efficient occlusion culling using a summed area table of opacity. 3D solid texturing and bump mapping capabilities are demonstrated to show the flexibility of such an integrated rendering pipeline. A detailed numerical error analysis, in addition to the performance and storage issues, is also presented. Our approach requires low storage and uses simple operations. Thus, it is easily implementable in hardware.
acm375311	WEAVE: a system for visually linking 3-D and statistical visualizations, applied to cardiac simulation and measurement data	acm375213	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the conference on Visualization '00	489	492	data synthesis, heart, medical, visualization	5	P53673	2000	4	In this paper, we demonstrate how WEAVE can be used to rapidly prototype a biomedical application, weaving together simulation data, measurement data, and 3-d anatomical data concerning he propagation of excitation in the heart. These linked statistical nd custom three-dimensional visualizations of the heart can allow cientists to more effectively study the correspondance of structure nd behavior.
acm376383	Envision: a user-centered database of computer science literature	acm205323	Communications of the ACM: Volume 38 , Issue 4 (April 1995): 	52	53	null	11	P170457	1995	4	Project Envision is an early NSF-funded digital library effort to develop a multimedia collection of computer science literature with full-text searching and full-content retrieval capabilities. Envision was launched in 1991 in accordance with the ACM Publications Board's plans for encouraging research studies to develop an electronic archive for computer science.
acm376953	Dynamic graph drawing	acm376944	Springer Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Drawing graphs methods and models	228	246	graph drawing	1	P327405	2001	0	null
acm377539	JDSL: The data structures library in java	acm377537	Dr. Dobb's Journal: Volume 26 , Issue 4 (April 2001): 	21	31	Java, data structures, algorithms	10	P247234	2001	0	Making advanced algorithms and data structures a programming reality.
acm378476	A rendering algorithm for visualizing 3D scalar fields	acm54852	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 15th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 22 , Issue 4 (August 1988)	51	58	D image, light scattering, ray tracing, thresholding	1	P335030	1988	9	Images produced in this manner are perceived as a varying density 'cloud' where color highlights the computed attributes. The application of this technique is demonstrated for visualizing a three dimensional seismic data set.
acm378494	ConMan: a visual programming language for interactive graphics	acm54852	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 15th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 22 , Issue 4 (August 1988)	103	111	visual programming languages	1	P335034	1988	5	ConMan is a high-level visual language we use on an IRIS workstation that lets users dynamically build and modify graphics applications. To do this, a system designer disintegrates complex applications into modular components. By interactively connecting simple components, the user constructs a complete graphics application that matches the needs of a task. A connection manager controls the flow of data between individual components. As a result, we replace the usual user-machine dialog with a dynamic live performance that is orchestrated by the user.
acm378497	A study in interactive 3-D rotation using 2-D control devices	acm54852	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 15th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 22 , Issue 4 (August 1988)	121	129	D graphics, I/O devices, input devices, interactive graphics, mouse, real-time graphics, rotation control, user performance, virtual controllers, virtual sphere	3	P196601	1988	4	This paper describes and evaluates the design of four virtual controllers for use in rotating three-dimensional objects using the mouse. Three of four of these controllers are "new" in that they extend traditional direct manipulation techniques to a 3-D environment. User performance is compared during simple and complex rotation tasks. The results indicate faster performance for complex rotations using the new continuous axes controllers compared to more traditional slider approaches. No significant differences in accuracy for complex rotations were found across the virtual controllers.A second study compared the best of these four virtual controllers (the Virtual Sphere) to a control device by Evans, Tanner and Wein. No significant differences either in time to complete rotation task or accuracy of performance were found. All but one subject indicated they preferred the Virtual Sphere because it seemed more "natural".
acm39091	Sphere-packings lattices and groups	acmSERIES10238	Springer Grundlehren Der Mathematischen Wissenschaften	777	null	null	3	P121439	1987	0	null
acm4084	The elements of graphing data	null	ISBN: 0-534-03730-5	323	null	null	1	P298777	1985	0	null
acm41997	Visualization in Scientific Computing (ViSC)	acm41997	ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 21 , Issue 6 (November 1987)		null	null	3	P25792	1987	0	null
acm42414	On visual formalisms	acm42411	Communications of the ACM: Volume 31 , Issue 5 (May 1988): 	514	530	higraphs, complex concurrent systems, statecharts	1	P61889	1988	22	The higraph, a general kind of diagramming object, forms a visual formalism of topological nature. Higraphs are suited for a wide array of applications to databases, knowledge representation, and, most notably, the behavioral specification of complex concurrent systems using the higraph-based language of statecharts.
acm43396	Algorithm animation using 3D interactive graphics	acmSERIES9055	Acm Distinguished Dissertation	186	null	D Graphics, algorithm animation, information visualization, program visualization	1	P187299	1993	2	This paper describes a variety of 3D interactive graphics techniques for visualizing programs. The third dimension provides an extra degree of freedom for conveying information, much as color adds to black-and-white images, animation adds to static images, and sound adds to silent animations. The examples in this paper illustrate three fundamental uses of 3D: for providing additional information about objects that are intrinsically two-dimensional, for uniting multiple views, and for capturing a history of execution. The application of dynamic three-dimensional graphics to program visualization is largely unexplored.
acm44652	Display of Surfaces from Volume Data	acm44650	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 8 , Issue 3 (May 1988): 	29	37	Hierarchical spatial enumeration, medical imaging, molecular graphics, octree, ray tracing, scientific visualization, volume rendering, volume visualization, voxel	1	P187458	1990	0	The first technique employs a pyramid of binary volumes to encode spatial coherence present in the data, and the second technique uses an opacity threshold to adaptively terminate ray tracing. Although the actual time saved depends on the data, speedups of an order of magnitude have been observed for datasets of useful size and complexity. Examples from two applications are given: medical imaging and molecular graphics.
acm45432	Seeing the forest for the trees: hierarchical displays of hypertext structures	acm45410	Conference on Supporting Group Work: Conference Sponsored by ACM SIGOIS and IEEECS TC-OA on Office information systems: ACM SIGOIS Bulletin: Volume 9 , Issue 2-3 April &amp; July 1988	205	212	hypertext, hypermedia, directed-graph display, graph browser, display decluttering, electronic documents	1	P269824	1988	14	Most recent hypertext systems support hierarchy only as a restricted subset of directed graph structure. Consequently they do not provide many of the capabilities for graphical information hiding and structure manipulation that a tree makes possible. This paper describes display techniques developed for IGD, a hypertext system that supports the creation of large graphical documents whose arbitrary directed graph structure is embedded in a strict hierarchy. IGD offers the full generality of arbitrary keyworded links, while simultaneously allowing hierarchies to be easily manipulated and displayed with much of their structural detail selectively abstracted.
acm48514	Reflections on NoteCards: seven issues for the next generation of hypermedia systems	acm48511	Communications of the ACM: Volume 31 , Issue 7 (July 1988): 	836	852	hypermedia	1	P86287	1988	30	NoteCards, developed by a team at Xerox PARC, was designed to support the task of transforming a chaotic collection of unrelated thoughts into an integrated, orderly interpretation of ideas and their interconnections. This article presents NoteCards as a foil against which to explore some of the major limitations of the current generation of hypermedia systems, and characterizes the issues that must be addressed in designing the next generation systems.
acm50088	Designing documentation to compensate for delocalized plans	acm50087	Communications of the ACM: Volume 31 , Issue 11 (November 1988): 	1259	1267	software documentation, conceptual representation methods	5	P77081	1988	9	Conceptual representation methods play a significant role in facilitating the software process. Recent studies explore and clarify the use of these representations and their impact on progress.
acm502574	Interactive path analysis of web site traffic	acm502512	Conference on Knowledge Discovery in Data: Proceedings of the seventh ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining	414	419	path analysis, web site traffic	3	P222728	2001	7	The goal of Path Analysis is to understand visitors' navigation of a Web site. The fundamental analysis component is a path. A path is a finite sequence of elements, typically representing URLs or a groups of URLs. A full path is an abstraction of a visit or a session, which can contain attributes described below. Subpaths represent interesting subsequences of the full paths.
acm502580	Funnel report mining for the MSN network	acm502512	Conference on Knowledge Discovery in Data: Proceedings of the seventh ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining	450	455	null	3	P279080	2001	1	Data mining research has long concentrated on the five main areas: clustering, association discovery, classification, forecasting and sequential patterns. Web data mining projects are concerned mainly with text mining, user segmentation, forecasting web usage and analyzing users' clickstream patterns. We present a new type of web usage mining called funnel analysis or funnel report mining. A funnel report is a study of the retention behavior among a series of pages or sites. For example, of all hits on the home page of www.msn.com, what percentages of those are followed by hits to moneycentral.msn.com? What percentage of www.msn.com hits are followed by moneycentral.msn.com, and then www.msnbc.com? What are the most interesting funnels starting with www.msn.com? Where does the greatest drop off rate occur after a user has hit MSNBC? Funnel reports are extremely useful in e-business because they give product planners an idea of how usable and well-structured their site is. From our experience performing web usage mining for the MSN network ol y sites, funnel reports are requested even more than user segmentation analyses, site affiliation studies and classification exercises. In this paper, we define a framework for funnel analysis and provide a tree-based solution we have been using successfully to extract all relevant funnels using only one scan of the data file.
acm519400	Information Graphics: A Comprehensive Illustrated Reference	null	ISBN: 0195135326	448	null	null	1	P358220	1999	0	null
acm5215	Probabilistic counting algorithms for data base applications	acm5212	Journal of Computer and System Sciences: Volume 31 , Issue 2 (September 1985): 	182	209	algorithms, measurement, data base management	2	P226688	2000	0	null
acm523237	Designing the User Interface: Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction, 3rd edition	acm523237	ISBN: 0201694972	1	639	null	1	P28685	1997	0	null
acm524313	Tcl and the Tk Toolkit	acm524313	ISBN: 9997887492		null	null	1	P145434	1996	0	null
acm529145	Computers as Theatre	acm529145	ISBN: 0201550601	256	null	null	1	P32208	1993	0	null
acm529269	Visualizing Data	null	ISBN: 0963488406	360	null	null	1	P298777	1993	0	null
acm534175	Visualizing Abstract Objects and Relations	null	ISBN: 9810200099	176	null	null	1	P283968	1989	0	null
acm540298	Clustering Algorithms	null	ISBN: 047135645	351	null	null	1	P354952	1975	0	null
acm548892	What Will Be: How the New World of Information Will Change Our Lives	acm548892	ISBN: 0062514792	336	null	null	2	P196780	1997	0	null
acm549965	Principles and Applications	acm549965	ISBN: 0792396677	240	null	null	2	P86676	1997	0	null
acm549990	The World Wide Web	null	ISBN: 0516261819	46	null	null	2	P355753	1997	0	null
acm550196	Software Visualization	acm550196	ISBN: 0262193957	580	null	null	3	P146108	1997	0	null
acm551884	Graph Drawing: Algorithms for the Visualization of Graphs, 1st edition	acm551884	ISBN: 0133016153	397	null	null	4	P116662	1998	0	null
acm556493	Professional JSP	acm556493	ISBN: 1861003625	800	null	null	9	P371396	2000	0	null
acm558656	Mmixware: A RISC Computer for the Third Millennium, 1st edition	acm558656	ISBN: 3540669388	559	null	null	2	P54451	2001	0	null
acm561081	Virtual Reality: Through the New Looking Glass, 2nd edition	acm561081	ISBN: 0070501688	438	null	null	2	P371337	1994	0	null
acm562139	Visual Cues: Practical Data Visualization	acm562139	ISBN: 0818631023	229	null	null	2	P375094	1994	0	null
acm563003	Filtering Segmentation and Depth	null	ISBN: 3540564845	143	null	null	3	P372655	1993	0	null
acm571472	Algorithms on Stings Trees and Sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology	acm270563	ACM SIGACT News: Volume 28 , Issue 4 (December 1997): 	41	60	null	1	P58060	1997	0	null
acm571649	Ordered and quantum treemaps: Making effective use of 2D space to display hierarchies	acm571647	ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG): Volume 21 , Issue 4 (October 2002): 	833	854	Hierarchies, human-computer interaction, image browsers, information visualization, jazz, ordered treemaps, treemaps, trees, zoomable user interfaces (ZUIs).	3	P28811	2002	10	This paper introduces a new strip treemap algorithm which addresses these shortcomings, and analyzes other pivot algorithms we recently developed showing the trade-offs between them. These ordered treemap algorithms ensure that items near each other in the given order will be near each other in the treemap layout. Using experimental evidence from Monte Carlo trials and from actual stock market data, we show that, compared to other layout algorithms, ordered treemaps are more stable, while maintaining relatively favorable aspect ratios of the constituent rectangles. A user study with 20 participants clarifies the human performance benefits of the new algorithms. Finally, we present quantum treemap algorithms, which modify the layout of the continuous treemap algorithms to generate rectangles that are integral multiples of an input object size. The quantum treemap algorithm has been applied to PhotoMesa, an application that supports browsing of large numbers of images.
acm57182	An empirical comparison of pie vs. linear menus	acm57167	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems	95	100	menus, user interface, empirical studies, directional selection	4	P120983	1988	3	Menus are largely formatted in a linear fashion listing items from the top to bottom of the screen or window. Pull down menus are a common example of this format. Bitmapped computer displays, however, allow greater freedom in the placement, font, and general presentation of menus. A pie menu is a format where the items are placed along the circumference of a circle at equal radial distances from the center. Pie menus gain over traditional linear menus by reducing target seek time, lowering error rates by fixing the distance factor and increasing the target size in Fitts's Law, minimizing the drift distance after target selection, and are, in general, subjectively equivalent to the linear style.
acm573164	Computer Architecture; A Quantitative Approach	null	ISBN: 1558600698	750	null	null	2	P144244	1992	0	null
acm574634	Introduction to the Theory of Neural Computation	null	ISBN: 0201515601	327	null	null	3	P144264	1991	0	null
acm574978	Time Series Analysis, Forecasting and Control	acm574978	ISBN: 0816211043	500	null	null	2	P367997	1990	0	null
acm575201	The Art of Human-Computer Interface Design	null	ISBN: 0201517973	523	null	null	2	P32208	1990	0	null
acm576082	Dynamic Graphics for Statistics	null	ISBN: 053409144	455	null	null	2	P394247	1988	0	null
acm580470	Introduction to Algorithms	acm580470	ISBN: 0070131511		null	null	4	P280448	2001	0	null
acm580949	Software Metrics: A Rigorous and Practical Approach, 2nd edition	acm580949	ISBN: 0534954251	656	null	null	2	P210210	1998	0	null
acm583200	C4.5: Programs for Machine Learning	acm583200	ISBN: 1558602402	302	null	null	1	P126795	1993	0	null
acm593438	Data Cube: A Relational Aggregation Operator Generalizing Group-By, Cross-Tab, and Sub-Totals	acm593414	Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery: Volume 1 , Issue 1 1997: 	29	53	aggregation, analysis, data cube, data mining, database, query, summarization	8	P140361	1997	3	The aggregate of a particular set of attribute values is a point in this space. The set of points forms an N-dimensional cube. Super-aggregates are computed by aggregating the N-cube to lower dimensional spaces. This paper (1) explains the cube and roll-up operators, (2) shows how they fit in SQL, (3) explains how users can define new aggregate functions for cubes, and (4) discusses efficient techniques to compute the cube. Many of these features are being added to the SQL Standard.
acm597197	Fixed Queries Array: A Fast and Economical Data Structure for Proximity Searching	acm597034	Multimedia Tools and Applications: Volume 14 , Issue 2 (June 2001): 	113	135	fixed queries tree, metric spaces, range search, similarity search	3	P343060	2001	0	Pivot-based algorithms are effective tools for proximity searching in metric spaces. They allow trading space overhead for number of distance evaluations performed at query time. With additional search structures (that pose extra space overhead) they can also reduce the amount of side computations. We introduce a new data structure, the Fixed Queries Array (FQA), whose novelties are (1) it permits sublinear extra CPU time without any extra data structure; (2) it permits trading number of pivot points for their precision so as to make better use of the available memory. We show experimentally that the FQA is an efficient tool to search in metric spaces and that it compares favorably against other state of the art approaches. Its simplicity converts it into a simple yet effective tool for practitioners seeking for a black-box method to plug into their applications.
acm606763	GeoVISTA studio: a codeless visual programming environment for geoscientific data analysis and visualization	acm606760	Computers &amp; Geosciences: Volume 28 , Issue 10 (December 2002): 	1131	1144	Java, component-oriented programming (COP), exploratory data analysis (EDA), knowledge construction, visual programming	2	P416800	2002	13	This paper illustrates the design of a component-oriented system, GeoVISTA Studio , as a means to overcome such difficulties by using state-of-the-art component-based software engineering techniques. Advantages described include: ease of program construction (visual programming), an open (nonproprietary) architecture, simple component-based integration and advanced deployment methods. This versatility has the potential to change the nature of systems development for the geosciences, providing better mechanisms to coordinate complex functionality, and as a consequence, to improve analysis by closer integration of software tools and better engagement of the human expert. Two example applications are presented to illustrate the potentia l of the Studio environment for exploring and better understanding large, complex geographical datasets and for supporting complex visual and computational analysis.
acm613931	Parallel Performance Visualization: From Practice to Theory	acm613777	IEEE Parallel &amp; Distributed Technology Systems &amp; Technology: Volume 3 , Issue 4 (December 1995): 	44	60	parallel computing, performance visualization, performance analysis, performance evaluation, performance debugging, scientific visualization	3	P197332	1995	0	Parallel performance visualization presents fundamental challenges--complex data sets, the artificial aspects of parallel computation, the need for integrated analysis and visual models, and the dependence on the user's mental perspective. Despite these challenges, important concepts for visualization design and use have begun to emerge. A history of the practice of implementing and using visualization in performance analysis tools reveals an underlying theory in the form of an abstract model of performance visualization and applied visualization concepts. The model is based on the integration of performance evaluation models and performance displays. The concepts involve aspects of context, scaling, user perception and interaction, comparison, and extraction of information. Several performance scenarios demonstrate how to apply the model and concepts and principles in real tools to overcome the problems of understanding performance. These scenarios measure utilization and communication, utilization statistics, data access, and parallel performance optimization. The model and concepts form a solid basis for future research in parallel performance visualization.
acm614078	Creating an Accurate Portrayal of Concurrent Executions	acm614060	IEEE Concurrency: Volume 6 , Issue 1 (January 1998): 	36	46	null	2	P75982	1998	0	Understanding and analyzing the execution of parallel and distributed systems is both important and challenging. Researchers have developed visualization tools to support users in confronting this challenge. However, experience shows that these tools can mislead as well as inform the viewer. This article discusses ways that visualization systems can hinder the viewer's comprehension of a program's execution. It then presents three characteristics that visualizations of concurrent systems should exhibit to promote an understanding of concurrent computations. The authors reveal how visualizations with reorderable, synchronous, and independent displays support an accurate representation of concurrent computations. They also describe the implementation of these essential characteristics with their own visualization tool environment, called Parade.
acm614292	Visualizing Network Data	acm614257	IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics: Volume 1 , Issue 1 (March 1995): 	16	28	Network visualization, parameter focusing, network data analysis, interactive graphics, data analysis, direct manipulation.	3	P241419	1995	0	Networks are critical to modern society, and a thorough understanding of how they behave is crucial to their efficient operation. Fortunately, data on networks is plentiful; by visualizing this data, it is possible to greatly improve our understanding. Our focus is on visualizing the data associated with a network and not on simply visualizing the structure of the network itself. We begin with three static network displays; two of these use geographical relationships, while the third is a matrix arrangement that gives equal emphasis to all network links. Static displays can be swamped with large amounts of data; hence we introduce direct-manipulation techniques that permit the graphs to continue to reveal relationships in the context of much more data. In effect, the static displays are parameterized so that interesting views may easily be discovered interactively. The software to carry out this network visualization is called SeeNet.
acm614294	Visualization of Multidimensional Shape and Texture Features in Laser Range Data Using Complex-Valued Gabor Wavelets	acm614257	IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics: Volume 1 , Issue 1 (March 1995): 	44	59	Feature-based visualization, feature extraction, wavelet transform, Gabor wavelets, multidimensional visualization, subspace mapping, principal components, shape, and texture analysis.	2	P191495	1995	0	This paper describes a new method for visualization and analysis of multivariate laser range data using complex-valued non-orthogonal Gabor wavelets, principal component analysis and a topological mapping network. The initial data set that provides both shape and texture information is encoded in terms of both amplitude and phase of a complex valued 2D image function. A set of carefully designed oriented Gabor filters performs a decomposition of the data and allows for retrieving local shape and texture features. The feature vector obtained from this method is multidimensional and in order to evaluate similar data features, further subspace methods to transform the data onto visualizable attributes, such as R, G, B, have to be determined. For this purpose, a feature-based visualization pipeline is proposed consisting of principal component analysis, normalization and a topological mapping network. This process finally renders a R, G, B subspace representation of the multidimensional feature vector. Our method is primarily applied to the visual analysis of features in human faces_but is not restricted to that.
acm614306	Visualization of Geometric Algorithms	acm614258	IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics: Volume 1 , Issue 2 (June 1995): 	194	204	Algorithm animation, computational geometry, three-dimensional geometric algorithms.	2	P23315	1995	0	This paper investigates the visualization of geometric algorithms. We discuss how limiting the domain makes it possible to create a system that enables others to use it easily. Knowledge about the domain can be very helpful in building a system which automates large parts of the users task. A system can be designed to isolate the user from any concern about how graphics is done. The application need only specify what happens and need not be concerned with how to make it happen on the screen. We develop a conceptual model and a framework for experimenting with it. We also present a system, GASP, which implements this model. GASP allows quick generation of three-dimensional geometric algorithm visualizations, even for highly complex algorithms. It also provides a visual debugging facility for geometric computing. We show the utility of GASP by presenting a variety of examples.
acm614447	Graph Visualization and Navigation in Information Visualization: A Survey	acm614277	IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics: Volume 6 , Issue 1 (January 2000): 	24	43	Information visualization, graph visualization, graph drawing, navigation, focus+context, fish-eye, clustering.	3	P117429	2000	0	This is a survey on graph visualization and navigation techniques, as used in information visualization. Graphs appear in numerous applications such as web browsing, state-transition diagrams, and data structures. The ability to visualize and to navigate in these potentially large, abstract graphs is often a crucial part of an application. Information visualization has specific requirements, which means that this survey approaches the results of traditional graph drawing from a different perspective.
acm614457	Structure-Based Brushes: A Mechanism for Navigating Hierarchically Organized Data and Information Spaces	acm614278	IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics: Volume 6 , Issue 2 (April 2000): 	150	159	Brushing, hierarchical representation, interactive selection, exploratory data analysis.	3	P305826	2000	0	Interactive selection is a critical component in exploratory visualization, allowing users to isolate subsets of the displayed information for highlighting, deleting, analysis, or focused investigation. Brushing, a popular method for implementing the selection process, has traditionally been performed in either screen space or data space. In this paper, we introduce an alternate, and potentially powerful, mode of selection that we term structure-based brushing, for selection in data sets with natural or imposed structure. Our initial implementation has focused on hierarchically structured data, specifically very large multivariate data sets structured via hierarchical clustering and partitioning algorithms. The structure-based brush allows users to navigate hierarchies by specifying focal extents and level-of-detail on a visual representation of the structure. Proximity-based coloring, which maps similar colors to data that are closely related within the structure, helps convey both structural relationships and anomalies. We describe the design and implementation of our structure-based brushing tool. We also validate its usefulness using two distinct hierarchical visualization techniques, namely hierarchical parallel coordinates and tree-maps. Finally, we discuss relationships between different classes of brushes and identify methods by which structure-based brushing could be extended to alternate data structures.
acm614509	ThemeRiver: Visualizing Thematic Changes in Large Document Collections	acm614285	IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics: Volume 8 , Issue 1 (January 2002): 	9	20	Visualization, metaphor, trend analysis, time line.	4	P421226	2002	0	The ThemeRiver visualization depicts thematic variations over time within a large collection of documents. The thematic changes are shown in the context of a time line and corresponding external events. The focus on temporal thematic change within a context framework allows a user to discern patterns that suggest relationships or trends. For example, the sudden change of thematic strength following an external event may indicate a causal relationship. Such patterns are not readily accessible in other visualizations of the data. We use a river metaphor to convey several key notions. The document collection's time line, selected thematic content, and thematic strength are indicated by the river's directed flow, composition, and changing width, respectively. The directed flow from left to right is interpreted as movement through time and the horizontal distance between two points on the river defines a time interval. At any point in time, the vertical distance, or width, of the river indicates the collective strength of the selected themes. Colored currents flowing within the river represent individual themes. A current's vertical width narrows or broadens to indicate decreases or increases in the strength of the individual theme.
acm614510	MGV: A System for Visualizing Massive Multidigraphs	acm614285	IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics: Volume 8 , Issue 1 (January 2002): 	21	38	External memory, visualization, massive data sets, graphs, hierarchies.	2	P131535	2002	0	We describe MGV, an integrated visualization and exploration system for massive multidigraph navigation. It adheres to the Visual Information-Seeking Mantra: overview first, zoom and filter, then details on demand. MGV's only assumption is that the vertex set of the underlying digraph corresponds to the set of leaves of a predetermined tree $T$. MGV builds an out-of-core graph hierarchy and provides mechanisms to plug in arbitrary visual representations for each graph hierarchy slice. Navigation from one level to another of the hierarchy corresponds to the implementation of a drill-down interface. In order to provide the user with navigation control and interactive response, MGV incorporates a number of visualization techniques like interactive pixel-oriented 2D and 3D maps, statistical displays, color maps, multilinked views, and a zoomable label based interface. This makes the association of geographic information and graph data very natural. To automate the creation of the vertex set hierarchy for MGV, we use the notion of graph sketches. They can be thought of as visual indices that guide the navigation of a multigraph too large to fit on the available display. MGV follows the client-server paradigm and it is implemented in C and Java-3D. We highlight the main algorithmic and visualization techniques behind the tools and, along the way, point out several possible application scenarios. Our techniques are being applied to multigraphs defined on vertex sets with sizes ranging from 100 million to 250 million vertices.
acm615681	The Sloan Digital Sky Survey	acm615598	Computing in Science and Engineering: Volume 1 , Issue 2 (March 1999): 	54	62	null	1	P14289	1999	0	As this article describes, the potential scientific impact of the survey is stunning, but to realize its potential, data must be turned into knowledge. As I'll indicate, this is not easy, for the survey's information content will be several times larger than the entire text contained in the Library of Congress.
acm617498	The Application Visualization System: A Computational Environment for Scientific Visualization	acm616006	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 9 , Issue 4 (July 1989): 	30	42	null	8	P50498	1989	1	A software system for developing interactive scientific visualization applications quickly, with a minimum of programming effort, is described. This application visualization system (AVS) is an application framework targeted at scientists and engineers. The goal of the system is to make applications that combine interactive graphics and high computational requirements easier to develop for both programmers and nonprogrammers. AVS is designed around the concept of software building blocks, or modules, which can be interconnected to form visualization applications. AVS allows flow networks of existing modules to be constructed using a direct-manipulation user interface, and it automatically generates a simple user interface to each module.
acm617723	Color Scales for Image Data	acm616021	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 12 , Issue 1 (January 1992): 	72	80	colour, computerised picture processing, medical computing, LOCS, heated-object color scale, linearized gray scale, linearized optimal color scale, medical image data, perception	2	P106192	1992	0	Desirable properties of color scales are examined, and a linearized optimal color scale (LOCS) is introduced. The merits of color scales for medical image data were studied, and it was found that, in tests, although observers performed somewhat better with the newly developed LOCS than with the previously advocated heated-object color scale, they performed significantly better with a linearized gray scale than with either of the color scales. After evaluating these results, the authors suggest alternate solutions that might help observers perform better. Nonetheless, they believe that color scales can contribute to the perception of information in images.
acm617761	Guest Editors' Introduction: Visualization	acm616024	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 12 , Issue 4 (July 1992): 	18	22	null	2	P169789	1992	0	null
acm617913	VisDB: Database Exploration Using Multidimensional Visualization	acm616032	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 14 , Issue 5 (September 1994): 	40	49	data visualisation, query processing, relational databases, visual databases, VisDB, data set, database exploration, display pixel, multidimensional data, multidimensional visualization, query specification process, relational database tables, user query, visual impression	2	P58960	1994	0	Discusses how the VisDB system supports the query specification process by representing the result visually. The main idea behind the system stems from the view of relational database tables as sets of multidimensional data where the number of attributes corresponds to the number of dimensions. In such a view, it is often unclear. In this system, each display pixel represents one database item. Pixels are arranged and colored to indicate the item's relevance to a user query and to give a visual impression of the resulting data set.
acm618447	Information Appliances and Tools in Visage	acm616047	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 17 , Issue 4 (July 1997): 	32	41	data analysis, data visualisation, report generators, Visage, consistent interface, data manipulation primitives, data visualization primitives, expert users, exploratory data analysis, information analysis workspace, information appliances, occasional users, routine information reporting, special-purpose applications, tools	3	P144637	1997	12	A workspace for information analysis must support two types of analysis: routine information reporting and exploratory analysis. We have been developing a workspace called Visage to address both types of analysis tasks. Our goal is for expert users to move easily between routine tasks and exploratory data analysis as situations demand. Furthermore, recognizing the inherent complexity of data analysis, we want a system that is accessible to occasional users yet simultaneously provides power and flexibility for expert users. Ideally, such a system should support a gradual shift to increasing expertise so that occasional users of routine interfaces can perform more detailed analyses if needed. Visage addresses these needs by providing a consistent interface to a wide variety of data manipulation and visualization primitives. Plus, it lets users combine these operations to create appliances-special-purpose applications capturing multiple steps of a routine data analysis process-in a single, simple interface. Analysts thus benefit from a common set of operations and ways to integrate information across applications. Visage provides both basic tools and specialized information appliances to help them.
acm618448	Extending Distortion Viewing from 2D to 3D	acm616047	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 17 , Issue 4 (July 1997): 	42	51	data compression, data visualisation, three-dimensional displays, 3D distortion viewing, 3D information display, 3D information layouts, 3D visual access tool, detail-in-context views, fisheye views, global relationships, graphs, image compression, information layout adjustment tools, line of sight, local details, magnification, multiscale views, occlusion, region of interest, visual exploration techniques, visual pattern recognition	3	P177594	1997	15	Addresses the visual exploration of 3D information layouts. Several visual exploration techniques have been proposed for 2D information layouts. Many of these try to take advantage of humans' natural visual pattern-recognition abilities to understand global relationships while simultaneously integrating this knowledge with local details. This desire for detail-in-context views (also called fisheye, multiscale and distortion views) has fueled considerable research in the development of distortion viewing tools. Generally, these tools provide space for magnification of local detail by compressing the rest of the image. In considering a possible detail-in-context view for 3D layouts, we first examine 2D distortion techniques, bearing in mind the particular 3D problem of occlusion. Comparing 2D and 3D information layout adjustment tools leads directly to a 3D visual access tool that clears a line of sight to any region of interest. While our technique can extend to any type of 3D information display, we focus on graphs.
acm618451	TennisViewer: A Browser for Competition Trees	acm616047	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 17 , Issue 4 (July 1997): 	63	65	computer animation, data visualisation, interactive systems, scheduling, sport, tree data structures, user interfaces, 2D display, MagicLens filters, TennisViewer, Tree-Maps, Visual Scheduler system, animation, browser, competition trees, data analysis, group meetings, interactive system, tennis match, time-varying display, tree data structure, user interface, visualization tool	2	P172393	1997	4	A tennis novice watching a match for the first time might be surprised that the crowd erupts with cheers when a player wins one point, then barely applauds when he wins the next. The crowd is not necessarily fickle; some points are genuinely more important than others because a tennis match is hierarchically structured. One match consists of several sets. One set consists of several games. One game consists of several points. The match-winning point is the most important one. How can we make that importance visible? Our goal is to let a fan, a player, or a coach examine tennis data visually, extract the interesting parts, and jump from one item to another quickly and easily. The visualization tool should help parse the elements of a match. We developed an interactive system called TennisViewer to visualize the dynamic, tree-structured data representing a tennis match. It provides an interface for users to quickly explore tennis match information. The visualization tool reveals the overall structure of the match as well as the fine details in a single screen. It uses a 2D display of translucent layers, a design that contains elements of Tree-Maps and of the Visual Scheduler system, which was designed to help faculty and students identify mutually available (transparent) time slots when arranging group meetings. TennisViewer provides MagicLens filters to explore specialized views of the information and a time-varying display to animate all or part of a match.
acm618455	Using MineSet for Knowledge Discovery	acm616047	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 17 , Issue 4 (July 1997): 	75	78	client-server systems, data visualisation, decision support systems, deductive databases, knowledge acquisition, relational databases, MineSet, client-server architecture, computationally intensive tasks, data mining, database visualization, decision making, knowledge discovery, relational data, visualization	1	P27937	1997	2	MineSet aids knowledge discovery and supports decision making based on relational data. It uses visualization and data mining to arrive at interesting results. Providing diverse visualization tools lets users choose the most appropriate method for a given problem. The client-server architecture performs most of the computationally intensive tasks on a server, while the processed results return to the client for visualization. The paper discusses MineSet database visualization and data mining visualization.
acm618538	Exploring Large Graphs in 3D Hyperbolic Space	acm616053	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 18 , Issue 4 (July 1998): 	18	23	computational geometry, computer graphics, graph theory, mathematics computing, software libraries, 3D hyperbolic space, H3Viewer drawing algorithm, fluid interaction, graph exploration, large graphs, software library, software system, spanning trees, visual clutter	1	P278221	1998	6	Drawing graphs as nodes connected by links is visually compelling but computationally difficult. Hyperbolic space and spanning trees can reduce visual clutter, speed up layout, and provide fluid interaction. This article briefly describes a software system that explicitly attempts to handle much larger graphs than previous systems and support dynamic exploration rather than final presentation. It then discusses the applicability of this system to goals beyond simple exploration. A software system that supports graph exploration should include both a layout and an interactive drawing component. I have developed new algorithms for both layout and drawing (H3 and H3Viewer). The H3Viewer drawing algorithm remains under development, so this article presents preliminary results. I have implemented a software library that uses these algorithms. It can handle graphs of more than 100,000 edges by using a spanning tree as the backbone for the layout and drawing algorithms.
acm618540	Principles for Information Visualization Spreadsheets	acm616053	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 18 , Issue 4 (July 1998): 	30	38	data visualisation, spreadsheet programs, information visualization, information visualization spreadsheets, spreadsheet paradigm, user interactions	4	P74503	1998	10	The visualization spreadsheet provides a framework for exploring large and complex data sets. Structuring user interactions using a spreadsheet paradigm creates a powerful tool for information visualization.
acm618590	Interactive Modeling of Plants	acm616056	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 19 , Issue 1 (January 1999): 	56	65	biology computing, botany, computational geometry, computer graphics, knowledge based systems, branching object generation, bushes, flowers, free-form deformations, geometric modelling techniques, geometrical elements, geometrical parameters, interactive modeling, nonbotanical objects, plant shape, plants, rule-based approach, structural elements, trees, tropisms, user feedback	2	P29533	1999	2	We present a rule-based approach combined with traditional geometric modelling techniques that allows easy generation of many branching objects including flowers, bushes, trees, and even nonbotanical objects. A set of components describing structural and geometrical elements of plants maps to a graph that forms the description of a specific plant and generates the geometry. Users get immediate feedback on what they've created-geometrical parameters, tropisms, and free-form deformations can control the overall shape of a plant. We demonstrate that our method handles the complexity of most real plants.
acm618679	Opportunities for Information Visualization	acm616062	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 20 , Issue 1 (January 2000): 	22	23	data visualisation, technological forecasting, commercial opportunities, information visualization, research, software products, technological forecasting	1	P141917	2000	6	Information visualization has been an active research topic for more than a decade. Products are starting to appear. This article discusses some of the research and commercial opportunities for information visualization over the next decade.
acm618853	Using Perceptual Syntax to Enhance Semantic Content in Diagrams	acm616072	IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications: Volume 21 , Issue 5 (September 2001): 	76	85	diagrams, object recognition, cognitive externalizations, cognitive symbolic operations, data-flow models, diagrams, entity-relationship diagrams, large information systems, node-link diagrams, perceptual pattern finding, perceptual syntax, semantic content, software structure diagrams, visual representation	3	P227961	2001	2	Diagrams are essential in documenting large information systems. They capture, communicate, and leverage knowledge indispensable for solving problems and act as cognitive externalizations (intertwining internal and external processes to extract information from the external world to enhance thought). A diagram provides a mapping from the problem domain to the visual representation by supporting cognitive processes that involve perceptual pattern finding and cognitive symbolic operations. However, not all mappings are equal, and for effectiveness we must embed a diagram's representation with characteristics, which lets users easily perceive meaningful patterns. Consequently, a diagram's effectiveness depends to some extent on how well we construct it as an input to our visual system. In our research, we focus on a class of diagrams commonly referred to as graphs or node-link diagrams. Nodes representing entities, objects, or processes, and links or edges representing relationships between the nodes characterize them. Their most common form is outline circles or boxes denoting nodes and lines of different types representing links between the nodes. Entity-relationship diagrams, software structure diagrams, and data-flow models are examples of node-link diagrams used to model the structure of processes, software, or data.
acm620306	Query by Image and Video Content: The QBIC System	acm619001	Computer: Volume 28 , Issue 9 (September 1995): 	23	32	null	12	P203769	1995	0	Advances in scanning, networking, compression and video technology--and the proliferation of multimedia computers--have led to the generation of large on-line collections of images and videos. These collections have created a need for new methods to locate specific images or video clips. The Query by Image Content (QBIC) project is studying methods to extend and complement text-based retrievals by querying and retrieving images and videos by content. Queries can be performed using attributes such as colors, textures, shapes, and object position. Video-specific queries include those on camera motion parameters like zoom, pan, and object motion. The project has resulted in a prototype system with two major steps: database population and query. In population, methods identify objects in still images, segment videos into short sequences called shots, and compute features describing color, texture, shape, position, or motion information. In database query, images and shots can be retrieved by example ("Show me images similar to this image") or by selecting properties from pickers such as a color wheel, a sketched shape, a list of camera motions, or a combination of these. Key QBIC technical issues include a visual query language and a graphical user interface that lets users form a query by painting, sketching, or selecting graphical elements. Key also are indexing techniques for high-dimensional features describing image and video content, automatic segmentation techniques for images (to identify interesting objects), and videos (to identify shots and interesting moving and static objects), and similarity retrieval (to match human perception). QBIC technology has moved into the Ultimedia and Digital Library commercial IBM products.
acm620372	VMW: A Visualization-Based Microarchitecture Workbench	acm619004	Computer: Volume 28 , Issue 12 (December 1995): 	57	64	data visualisation, formal specification, logic CAD, microprocessor chips, parallel architectures, performance evaluation, virtual machines, VMW, machine specification, multifunction workbench, performance simulators, retargetability, software tools, superscalar processor design, visualization-based microarchitecture workbench	2	P285251	1995	0	Superscalar processor design requires increasingly sophisticated software tools. The visualization-based microarchitecture workbench described in the paper addresses weaknesses common to most performance simulators: the lack of retargetability, visualization support, and interactive control. VMW provides a multifunction workbench for aiding designers of modern superscalar processors. It facilitates rigorous machine specification by providing specification templates at both the architecture and microarchitecture levels.
acm620421	Software Visualization in the Large	acm619006	Computer: Volume 29 , Issue 4 (April 1996): 	33	43	data visualisation, software engineering, visual programming, case studies, execution behavior, file summary representation, hierarchical representation, interaction techniques, large team-oriented projects, line representation, pixel representation, software history, software library, software visualization, static software characteristics, system complexity, visual code representations	2	P280253	1996	0	The invisible nature of software hides system complexity, particularly for large team-oriented projects. The authors have evolved four innovative visual representations of code to help solve this problem: line representation; pixel representation; file summary representation; and hierarchical representation. We first describe these four visual code representations and then discuss the interaction techniques for manipulating them. We illustrate our software visualization techniques through five case studies. The first three focus on software history and static software characteristics; the last two discuss execution behavior. The software library and its implementation are then described. Finally, we briefly review some related work and compare and contrast our different techniques for visualizing software.
acm623999	The MIPS R10000 Superscalar Microprocessor	acm623268	IEEE Micro: Volume 16 , Issue 2 (April 1996): 	28	40	microprocessor chips, Mips R10000 superscalar microprocessor, cache refills, exception handling, memory addresses, memory latency, sequential memory consistency, speculative execution, write-back caches	1	P160466	1996	0	The Mips R10000 is a dynamic, superscalar microprocessor that implements the 64-bit Mips 4 instruction set architecture. It fetches and decodes four instructions per cycle and dynamically issues them to five fully-pipelined, low-latency execution units. Instructions can be fetched and executed speculatively beyond branches. Instructions graduate in order upon completion. Although execution is out of order, the processor still provides sequential memory consistency and precise exception handling. The R10000 is designed for high performance, even in large, real-world applications with poor memory locality. With speculative execution, it calculates memory addresses and initiates cache refills early. Its hierarchical, nonblocking memory system helps hide memory latency with two levels of set-associative, write-back caches.
acm62420	Interface usage measurements in a user interface management system	acm62402	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 1st annual ACM SIGGRAPH symposium on User Interface Software	102	108	Design, Management, Measurement, Performance	2	P58183	1988	11	User Interface Management Systems have provided support for most user interface design personnel with the exception of dialogue evaluators. Potential support that a UIMS can provide to evaluators of user interfaces generated by the UIMS are discussed. Metrics for measuring interactive behavior have been implemented as part of a User Interface Management System. It is shown how the external control and separate dialogue description features of UIMSs make possible such measurements. These metrics are automatically mapped back to the responsible portions of the dialogue description. Reports are generated which aid interface evaluators in locating specific problems in a user interface design.
acm624851	Faust: An Integrated Environment for Parallel Programming	acm624576	IEEE Software: Volume 6 , Issue 4 (July 1989): 	20	27	Faust, Sigma, application code, common data sets, context editor, dynamic call-graph tool, functional integration, multiprocessor performance analysis, parallel programming, performance-evaluation tools, program database, programming environments, project support environments, project-management tool	5	P291365	1989	0	A description is given of Faust, an integrated environment for the development of large, scientific applications. Faust includes a project-management tool, a context editor that is interfaced to a program database, and performance-evaluation tools. In Faust, all applications work is done in the context of projects, which serve as the focal point for all tool interactions. A project roughly corresponds to an executable program. Faust achieves functional integration through operations on common data sets maintained in each project. Sigma, a Faust tool designed to help users of parallel supercomputers retarget and optimize application code, helps them either fine-tune parallel code that has been automatically generated or optimize a new parallel algorithm's design. Faust includes a dynamic call-graph tool and an integrated, multiprocessor performance analysis and characterization tool set.
acm624852	Start/Pat: A Parallel-Programming Toolkit	acm624576	IEEE Software: Volume 6 , Issue 4 (July 1989): 	29	38	FORTRAN, PCF Fortran, interactive toolkit, multiprocessors, parallel programming, parallel-programming toolkit, parallelization, sequential Fortran code, software tools	3	P30329	1989	0	The authors address the question of how to use existing sequential Fortran code on multiprocessors. Their answer is Start/Pat, an interactive toolkit that automates the parallelization of sequential Fortran as it teaches the programmer how to exploit and understand parallel structures and architectures. The Start/Pat prototype has been installed at several user sites. The authors discuss the choice of PCF Fortran, the toolkit components, and the features of Pat and Start.
acm624902	Reverse Engineering and Design Recovery: A Taxonomy	acm624579	IEEE Software: Volume 7 , Issue 1 (January 1990): 	13	17	computer-aided software engineering, design recovery, enhancement, existing systems, forward engineering, maintenance, nomenclature, redocumentation, reengineering, restructuring, reverse-engineering approaches, software engineering, taxonomy	2	P77049	1990	0	The key to applying computer-aided software engineering to the maintenance and enhancement of existing systems lies in applying reverse-engineering approaches. However, there is considerable confusion over the terminology used in both technical and marketplace discussions. The authors define and relate six terms: forward engineering, reverse engineering, redocumentation, design recovery, restructuring, and reengineering. The objective is not to create new terms but to rationalize the terms already in use. The resulting definitions apply to the underlying engineering processes, regardless of the degree of automation applied.
acm624963	Drawing Dynamic Trees	acm624582	IEEE Software: Volume 7 , Issue 4 (July 1990): 	21	28	computer graphics, data structure, delete, dynamic trees, explicit representation, geometric algorithm, graphical user interfaces, insert, node contours, polygonal shape, subtree contours, subtrees, tree-drawing algorithm, trees (mathematics), user interfaces Adobe Acrobat QuickTime Windows Media Player Real Player	1	P425537	1990	0	A tree-drawing algorithm that addresses the weaknesses of current approaches to constructing graphical user interfaces is presented. Present algorithms either do not let you draw tree nodes of varying shapes and sizes or they draw such trees in a way that does not produce trees as compact as they could be, which is especially important when diagramming a large system. Also, they cannot reuse layout information when the trees changes, so after every change the layout must be recomputed and the tree redrawn. The main difference between these traditional approaches and the author's approach is that his algorithm is more geometric. Unlike other algorithms, it uses an explicit representation of node and subtree contours, and it stores every contour as a polygon. It has three advantages over traditional algorithms. It allows one to draw trees with nodes of any polygonal shape compactly. The data structure supports insert and delete operations on subtrees. It is simple to implement, yet flexible.
acm625405	Dynamic Queries for Visual Information Seeking	acm624604	IEEE Software: Volume 11 , Issue 6 (November 1994): 	70	77	animated results, complex queries, database management systems, databases, display algorithms, dynamic queries, graphical user interfaces, human factors, query processing, retrieval, user-interface design, visual information seeking, visual interfaces, widgets	1	P28682	1994	0	Considers how dynamic queries allow users to fly through databases by adjusting widgets and viewing the animated results. In studies, users reacted to this approach with an enthusiasm more commonly associated with video games. Adoption requires research into retrieval and display algorithms and user-interface design. The author discusses how experts may benefit from visual interfaces because they will be able to formulate more complex queries and interpret intricate results.
acm625443	Image-Browser Taxonomy and Guidelines for Designers	acm624606	IEEE Software: Volume 12 , Issue 2 (March 1995): 	21	32	computer graphics, graphical user interfaces, image processing, user interface management systems, visual databases, analysis, design, designer guidelines, evaluation, image-browser taxonomy, informal specification technique, large image browsing, selected image exploration, task taxonomy, tools, two-dimensional browsing	3	P42125	1995	0	In many applications users must browse large images. Most designers merely use two one-dimensional scroll bars or ad hoc designs for two-dimensional scroll bars. However, the complexity of two-dimensional browsing suggests that more careful analysis, design, and evaluation might lead to significant improvements. Our exploration of existing 2D browsers has led us to identify many features and a wide variety of tasks performed with the browsers. We introduce an informal specification technique to describe 2D browsers and a task taxonomy, suggest design features and guidelines, and assess existing strategies. We focus on the tools to explore a selected image and so do not cover techniques to browse a series of images or to browse large-image databases.
acm627798	Visualization Techniques for Mining Large Databases: A Comparison	acm627307	IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering: Volume 8 , Issue 6 (December 1996): 	923	938	Data mining, explorative data analysis, visualizing large databases, visualizing multidimensional, multivariate data	2	P58960	1996	0	Visual data mining techniques have proven to be of high value in exploratory data analysis, and they also have a high potential for mining large databases. In this article, we describe and evaluate a new visualization-based approach to mining large databases. The basic idea of our visual data mining techniques is to represent as many data items as possible on the screen at the same time by mapping each data value to a pixel of the screen and arranging the pixels adequately. The major goal of this article is to evaluate our visual data mining techniques and to compare them to other well-known visualization techniques for multidimensional data: the parallel coordinate and stick-figure visualization techniques. For the evaluation of visual data mining techniques, the perception of data properties counts most, while the CPU time and the number of secondary storage accesses are only of secondary importance. In addition to testing the visualization techniques using real data, we developed a testing environment for database visualizations similar to the benchmark approach used for comparing the performance of database systems. The testing environment allows the generation of test data sets with predefined data characteristics which are important for comparing the perceptual abilities of visual data mining techniques.
acm628634	Isoperimetric Normalization of Planar Curves	acm628315	IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence: Volume 16 , Issue 8 (August 1994): 	769	777	canonical form, closed planar curves, computational geometry, edge detection, image processing, invariant shape descriptor, isoperimetric normalization, object recognition, piecewise smooth closed curve, projective group PGL(2)	2	P56402	1994	0	This paper presents an algorithm for transforming closed planar curves into a canonical form, independent of the viewpoint from which the original image of the contour was taken. The transformation that takes the contour to its canonical form is a member of the projective group PGL(2), chosen because PGL(2) contains all possible transformations of a plane curve under central projection onto another plane. The scheme relies on solving computationally an "isoperimetric" problem in which a transformation is sought which maximises the area of a curve given unit perimeter. In the case that the transformation is restricted to the affine subgroup there is a unique extremising transformation for any piecewise smooth closed curve. Uniqueness holds, almost always, even for curves that are not closed. In the full projective case, isoperimetric normalization is well-defined only for closed curves. We have found computational counterexamples for which there is more than one extremal transformation. Numerical algorithms are described and demonstrated both for the affine and the projective cases. Once a canonical curve is obtained, its isoperimetric area can be regarded as an invariant descriptor of shape.
acm631037	A Technique for Drawing Directed Graphs	acm630795	IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering: Volume 19 , Issue 3 (March 1993): 	214	230	auxiliary graph, computer graphics, directed graphs, four-pass algorithm, iterative heuristic, local transpositions, network simplex algorithm, novel weight function, optimal coordinates, optimal rank assignment, optimisation, splines, splines (mathematics), vertex order	4	P72008	1993	0	A four-pass algorithm for drawing directed graphs is presented. The fist pass finds an optimal rank assignment using a network simplex algorithm. The seconds pass sets the vertex order within ranks by an iterative heuristic, incorporating a novel weight function and local transpositions to reduce crossings. The third pass finds optimal coordinates for nodes by constructing and ranking an auxiliary graph. The fourth pass makes splines to draw edges. The algorithm creates good drawings and is fast.
acm632834	Visualizing the stock market	acm632716	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: CHI '99 extended abstracts on Human factors in computing systems	188	189	interactive graphics, investing, treemap, visualization	1	P192713	1999	2	We describe a new 2-dimensional visualization algorithm capable of presenting detailed information on hundreds of items while emphasizing overall patterns in the data. This display method, which builds on Shneiderman's treemap technique, makes use of both hierarchy and similarity information. We have implemented this display in the SmartMoney Map of the Market, a web page that reports current data on over 500 publicly traded companies.
acm63669	Evaluating the effectiveness of reliability-assurance techniques	acm63666	Journal of Systems and Software: Volume 9 , Issue 3 (March 1989): 	191	195	Management, Measurement, Performance, Reliability	2	P131935	1989	0	In the software-development life cycle, various reliability assurance techniques are routinely performed in an attempt to reduce the number of errors in a software product. These reliability-assurance techniques commonly consist of a variety of technical reviews and several levels of testing. Although the utilization of these techniques is growing, there is a lack of quantitative data on their effectiveness. This paper describes two metrics, error-detection efficiency and cost effectiveness, which were used to evaluate the reliability-assurance techniques employed in a large software project. The results of the study are also presented.
acm649649	The Power of Decision Tables	acm645324	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 8th European Conference on Machine Learning	174	189	null	1	P248713	1995	0	null
acm64992	Context and orientation in hypermedia networks	acm64789	ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS): Volume 7 , Issue 1 (January 1989): 	58	84	Information Systems, Information storage and retrieval, Systems and Software, Web View, Information Search and Retrieval, Search process, Design, Human Factors	2	P160425	1989	16	The core of hypermedia's power lies in the complex networks of links that can be created within and between documents. However, these networks frequently overwhelm the user and become a source of confusion. Within Intermedia, we have developed the Web View-a tool for viewing and navigating such networks with a minimum of user confusion and disorientation. The key factors in the Web View's success are a display that combines a record of the user's path through the network with a map of the currently available links; a scope line that summarizes the number of documents and links in the network; and a set of commands that permit the user to open documents directly from the Web View.
acm652239	Efficient Similarity Search In Sequence Databases	acm645415	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Foundations of Data Organization and Algorithms	69	84	null	3	P238204	1993	0	We propose an indexing method for time sequences for processing similarity queries. We use the Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) to map time sequences to the frequency domain, the crucial observation being that, for most sequences of practical interest, only the first few frequencies are strong. Another important observation is Parseval's theorem, which specifies that the Fourier transform preserves the Euclidean distance in the time or frequency domain.
acm655120	Supporting Data Mining of Large Databases by Visual Feedback Queries	acm645479	Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Data Engineering	302	313	Data Mining, Visualizing Large Data Sets, Visualizing Multidimensional and Multivariate Data, Visual Query Systems, Interfaces to Database Systems	3	P58960	1994	2	In this paper, we describe a query system that provides visual relevance feedback in querying large databases. Our goal is to support the process of data mining by representing as many data items as possible on the display. By arranging and coloring the data items as pixels according to their relevance for the query, the user gets a visual impression of the resulting data set. Using an interactive query interface, the user may change the query dynamically and receives immediate feedback by the visual representation of the resulting data set. Furthermore, by using multiple windows for different parts of a complex query, the user gets visual feedback for each part of the query and, therefore, may easier understand the overall result. Our system allows to represent the largest amount of data that can be visualized on current display technology, provides valuable feedback in querying the database, and allows the user to find results which, otherwise, would remain hidden in the database.
acm662606	Toward Flexible Control of the Temporal Mapping from Concurrent Program Events to Animations	acm645604	Proceedings of the 8th International Symposium on Parallel Processing	902	908	null	2	P75982	1994	0	As parallel and distributed computers become more widely available and used, the already important process of understanding and debugging concurrent programs will take on even greater importance. We believe that visualization can help in the process. In this paper we discuss heretofore unaddressed issues in the visualization of concurrent programs, and present the Animation Choreographer. The Animation Choreographer allows users to view, manipulate, and explore the set of alternate feasible orderings of the program execution under study, both through the Choreographer interface and in the context of the selected visualizations, thus providing the user with a variety of temporal perspectives on the computation.
acm671516	Similarity Search in High Dimensions via Hashing	acm645925	Proceedings of the 25th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases	518	529	null	3	P21454	1999	0	The nearest- or near-neighbor query problems arise in a large variety of database applications, usually in the context of similarity searching. Of late, there has been increasing interest in building search/index structures for performing similarity search over high-dimensional data, e.g., image databases, document collections, time-series databases, and genome databases. Unfortunately, all known techniques for solving this problem fall prey to the "curse of dimensionality." That is, the data structures scale poorly with data dimensionality; in fact, if the number of dimensions exceeds 10 to 20, searching in k-d trees and related structures involves the inspection of a large fraction of the database, thereby doing no better than brute-force linear search. It has been suggested that since the selection of features and the choice of a distance metric in typical applications is rather heuristic, determining an approximate nearest neighbor should suffice for most practical purposes. In this paper, we examine a novel scheme for approximate similarity search based on hashing. The basic idea is to hash the points from the database so as to ensure that the probability of collision is much higher for objects that are close to each other than for those that are far apart. We provide experimental evidence that our method gives significant improvement in running time over other methods for searching in highdimensional spaces based on hierarchical tree decomposition. Experimental results also indicate that our scheme scales well even for a relatively large number of dimensions (more than 50).
acm673155	Fast Similarity Search in the Presence of Noise Scaling and Translation in Time-Series Databases	acm645921	Proceedings of the 21th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases	490	501	null	4	P238204	1995	0	We introduce a new model of similarity of time sequences that captures the intuitive notion that two sequences should be considered similar if they have enough non-overlapping time-ordered pairs of subse- quences thar are similar. The model allows the am- plitude of one of the two sequences to be scaled by any suitable amount and its offset adjusted appropriately. Two subsequences are considered similar if one can be enclosed within an envelope of a specified width drawn around the other. The model also allows non-matching gaps in the matching subsequences. The matching sub-sequences need not be aligned along the time axis. Given this model of similarity, we present fast search techniques for discovering all similar sequences in a set of sequences. These techniques can also be used to find all (sub)sequences similar to a given sequence. We applied this matching system to the U.S. mutual funds data and discovered interesting matches.
acm673478	MineSet(tm): A System for High-End Data Mining and Visualization	acm645922	Proceedings of the 22th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases	595	595	null	0	null	1996	0	MineSet is a highly integrated suite of client-server tools for the high-end mining and visualization of verylarge enterprise databases. MineSet represents the confluence of several important software and hardware technolo-gies: data mining algorithms, fast multiprocessing database servers, novel techniques for interactive 3-D data visual-ization, and powerful graphics workstations. MineSet provides integrated facilities for the extraction of data from var-ied sources, algorithms for mining the extracted data, and tools for the 3-D visualization of results. The mining al-gorithms allow for the discovery of previously unknown nuggets of information, while the sophisticated visualiza-tions allow the user to get a better understanding of both the data mining results, and also the interrelationships amongthe raw data ("visual data mining"). Underlying all these techniques is the ability to handle large data sets. 
acm673502	The X-tree: An Index Structure for High-Dimensional Data	acm645922	Proceedings of the 22th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases	28	39	null	3	P267223	1996	6	In this paper, we propose a new method for indexing large amounts of point and spatial data in highdimensional space. An analysis shows that index structures such as the R*-tree are not adequate for indexing high-dimensional data sets. The major problem of R-tree-based index structures is the overlap of the bounding boxes in the directory, which increases with growing dimension. To avoid this problem, we introduce a new organization of the directory which uses a split algorithm minimizing overlap and additionally utilizes the concept of supernodes. The basic idea of overlap-minimizing split and supernodes is to keep the directory as hierarchical as possible, and at the same time to avoid splits in the directory that would result in high overlap. Our experiments show that for high-dimensional data, the X-tree outperforms the well-known R*-tree and the TV-tree by up to two orders of magnitude.
acm680887	Pearls, Swines and Sow's Ears: Interface Research Inside a Multinational Bank	acm646099	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 14th British National Conference on Databases Advances in Databases	222	229	null	1	P194436	1996	0	null
acm685681	The LEDA Platform of Combinatorial and Geometric Computing	acm646251	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 24th International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming	7	16	null	3	P163821	1997	0	LEDA is a library of efficient data types and algorithms in combinatorial and geometric computing. The main features of the library are its wide collection of data types and algorithms, the precise and readable specification of these types, its efficiency, its extendibility, and its ease of use.
acm690165	The Geometry of Browsing	acm646387	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the Third Latin American Symposium on Theoretical Informatics	331	340	null	2	P241424	1998	0	We present a geometric counting problem that arises in browsing and solve it in constant time per query using nonexhaustive tables. On the other hand, we prove that several closely related problems require exhaustive tables, no matter how much time we allow per query.
acm69235	Voyeur graphical views of parallel programs	acm68210	Workshop on Parallel &amp; Distributed Debugging: Proceedings of the 1988 ACM SIGPLAN and SIGOPS workshop on Parallel and distributed debugging: ACM SIGPLAN Notices: Volume 24 , Issue 1 (January 1989)	206	215	Computing Methodologies, Computer graphics, Three-Dimensional Graphics and Realism, Animation,, Computer Systems Organization, Processor architectures, Multiple Data Stream Architectures (Multiprocessors), Parallel processors, Algorithms, Theory	3	P63880	1989	8	Voyeur is a prototype system that facilitates the construction of application-specific, visual views of parallel programs. These views range from textual views showing the contents of variables to graphical maps of the state of the computational domain of the program. These views have been instrumental in quickly detecting bugs that would have been difficult to detect otherwise.
acm695311	Comparative Multivariate Visualization Across Conceptually Different Graphic Displays	acm646494	Proceedings of the Seventh International Working Conference on Scientific and Statistical Database Management	42	51	null	2	P49085	1994	0	To extend the scope of multivariate data visualization, the notion of comparative visualization is introduced: it allows the comparison of visualization methods by interconnecting several different graphic displays. This linking of visualizations, together with the possibility to interactively manipulate data, enable an analyst to display the same data set with a number of conceptually different visualization methods simultaneously and to carry out graphical operations across them. Graphical effects in different displays not only reveal information about the data themselves, they also provide the basis to investigate how the different visualization methods relate to each other. With the "VisuLab", we developed a software tool for personal computers to investigate comparative multivariate data visualization.
acm702166	Circular Drawings of Biconnected Graphs	acm646678	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Selected papers from the International Workshop on Algorithm Engineering and Experimentation	57	73	null	2	P466953	1999	0	Many applications which would benefit from an accompanying circular graph drawing include tools which manipulate telecommunication, computer, and social networks. Previous research has produced solutions which are visually complex with respect to the number of crossings. In this paper we focus our attention on developing better and more efficient circular drawing algorithms. In particular we present an tex2html_wrap_inline99 algorithm which lays out a biconnected graph onto a single embedding circle. Furthermore, we can guarantee that if a zero crossing circular embedding exists for an input graph, then our algorithm will find it. Also, the results of extensive experiments conducted over a set of 10,328 biconnected graphs and show our technique to perform significantly better than the current technology.
acm702778	Representation Matters: The Effect of 3D Objects and a Spatial Metaphor in a Graphical User Interface	acm646685	Proceedings of HCI on People and Computers XIII	209	219	D interface, graphical interface, spatial metaphor, icon, ecological layout, regular layout	4	P501877	1998	0	As computer graphical user interfaces (GUIs) are loaded with increasingly greater numbers of objects,researchers in HCI are forced to look for the next step in constructing user interface. In this paper, weexamine the effects of employing more natural representations in GUIs. In particular, we experimentallyassess the impact of object form (2D iconic versus 3D realistic) and layout (regular versus ecological) haveon target acquisition time. Results indicate that both form and layout significantly affect performance;subjects located targets more quickly when using interfaces with 3D objects and ecological layouts thanthey do with 2D objects and regular layouts. An interface with an ecological layout, realistic objects, orboth may be an improvement over traditional interfaces.
acm721079	WebPath - A Three-Dimensional Web History	acm647341	INFOVIS: Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization	3	10	null	2	P77468	1998	0	WebPath is a virtual reality based application that provides an easily recognisable presentation of your browsing history. The different dimensions of a 3-D space are used to position representations of documents using different metrics, together with their relationships.
acm721081	Geographic Visualization: Designing Manipulable Maps for Exploring Temporally Varying Georeferenced Statistics	acm647341	INFOVIS: Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization	87	96	null	4	P12617	1998	1	Geographic Visualization, sometimes called cartographic visualization, is a form of information visualization in which principles from cartography, geographic information systems (GIS), Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA), and information visualization more generally are integrated in the development and assessment of visual methods that facilitate the exploration, analysis, synthesis, and presentation of georeferenced information. We report on development and use of one component of a prototype GVis environment designed to facilitate exploration, by domain experts, of time series multivariate georeferenced health statistics. Emphasis is on how manipulable dynamic GVis tools may facilitate visual thinking, pattern noticing, and hypothesis generation. The prototype facilitates the highlighting of data extremes, examination of change in geographic patterns over time, and exploration of similarity among georeferenced variables. A qualitative exploratory analysis of verbal protocols and transaction logs is used to characterize system use. Evidence produced through the characterization highlights differences among experts in data analysis strategies (particularly in relation to the use of attribute "focusing combined with time series animation) and corresponding differences in success at noticing spatiotemporal patterns.
acm721211	The Generalized Detail-In-Context Problem	acm647341	INFOVIS: Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization	44	51	null	1	P422060	1998	7	This paper describes a general formulation of the "detail-in-context" problem, which is a central issue of fundamental importance to a wide variety of nonlinear magnification systems. A number of tools are described for dealing with this problem effectively. These tools can be applied to any continuous nonlinear magnification system, and are not tied to specific implementation features of the system that produced the original transformation. Of particular interest is the development of "seamless multi-level views", which allow multiple global views of an information space (each having different information content) to be integrated into a single view without discontinuity.
acm721212	Multi-Faceted Insight Through Interoperable Visual Information Analysis Paradigms	acm647341	INFOVIS: Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization	137	143	information visualization, user scenario, information analysis, document analysis	4	P76728	1998	0	To gain insight and understanding of complex information collections, users must be able to visualize and explore many facets of the information. This paper presents several novel visual methods from an information analyst's perspective. We present a sample scenario, using the various methods to gain a variety of insights from a large information collection. We conclude that no single paradigm or visual method is sufficient for many analytical tasks. Often a suite of integrated methods offers a better analytic environment in today's emerging culture of information overload and rapidly changing issues. We also conclude that the interactions among these visual paradigms are equally as important as, if not more important than, the paradigms themselves.
acm721214	Traversal-Based Visualization of Data Structures	acm647341	INFOVIS: Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization	11	18	Picture/Image Generation, Viewing Algorithms, Visual Programming, Testing and Debugging, Debugging aids	2	P467696	1998	0	Algorithm animation systems and graphical debuggers perform the task of translating program state into visual representations. While algorithm animations typically rely on user augmented source code to produce visualizations, debuggers make use of symbolic information in the target program. As a result, visualizations produced by debuggers often lack important semantic content, making them inferior to algorithm animation systems. This paper presents a method to provide higher-level, more informative visualizations in a debugger using a technique called traversal-based visualization. The debugger traverses a data structure using a set of user-supplied patterns to identify parts of the data structure to be drawn a similar way. A declarative language is used to specify the patterns and the actions to take when the patterns are encountered. Alternatively, the user can construct traversal specifications through a graphical user interface to the declarative language. Furthermore, the debugger supports modification of data. Changes made to the on-screen representation are reflected in the underlying data.
acm725689	Years of Multidimensional Multivariate Visualization	acm647365	Scientific Visualization, Overviews, Methodologies, and Techniques	3	33	null	2	P218971	1994	1	We present a survey of multidimensional multivariate (mdmv) visualization techniques developed during the last three decades. This subfield of scientific visualization deals with the analysis of data with multiple parameters or factors, and the key relationships among them. The course of development is roughly organized into four stages, within which major milestones are discussed. Recently developed techniques are explored with examples.
acm728600	Graph Layout Adjustment Strategies	acm647547	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the Symposium on Graph Drawing	487	499	Visualization, nested graphs, fisheye views, node disjointness problem, graph layouts, software visualization	2	P188513	1995	0	When adjusting a graph layout, it is often desirable to preserve various properties of the original graph in the adjusted view. Pertinent properties may include straightness of lines, graph topology, orthogonalities and proximities. A layout adjustment algorithm which can be used to create fisheye views of nested graphs is introduced. The SHriMP (Simple Hierarchical Multi-Perspective) visualization technique uses this algorithm to create fisheye views of nested graphs. This algorithm preserves straightness of lines and uniformly resizes nodes when requests for more screen space are made. In contrast to other layout adjustment algorithms, this algorithm has several variants to preserve additional selected properties of the original graph. These variants use different layout strategies to reposition nodes when the graph is distorted. The SHriMP visualization technique is demonstrated through its application to visualizing structures in large software systems.
acm728609	The Botanical Beauty of Random Binary Trees	acm647547	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the Symposium on Graph Drawing	166	177	null	2	P173848	1995	0	null
acm728742	Incremental Layout in DynaDAG	acm647547	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the Symposium on Graph Drawing	409	418	null	1	P268645	1995	0	Generating incrementally stable layouts is important for visualizing dynamic graphs in many applications. This paper describes DynaDAG, a new heuristic for incremental layout of directed acyclic graphs drawn as hierarchies, and its application in the DynaGraph system.
acm728744	Circular Layout in the Graph Layout Toolkit	acm647548	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the Symposium on Graph Drawing	92	100	null	3	P499638	1996	0	null
acm728745	Automatic Graph Clustering	acm647548	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the Symposium on Graph Drawing	395	400	null	2	P489574	1996	0	We present a technique and a program for the automatic clustering of graphs. The technique is based on several heuristics, which allows for an efficient implementation on a personal computer. Our approach is capable of clustering graphs with &gt; 3000 vertices efficiently. The demonstration shows an interactive user environment that supports both automatic and user-controlled clustering. As an application, we consider the clustering of large WWW connectivity graphs.
acm728752	Straight-Line Drawing Algorithms for Hierarchical Graphs and Clustered Graphs	acm647548	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the Symposium on Graph Drawing	113	128	computational geometry, automatic graph drawing, hierarchical graph, clustered graph, straight-line drawing	3	P223968	1996	0	Hierarchical graphs and clustered graphs are useful non-classical graph models for structured relational information. Hierarchical graphs are graphs with layering structures; clustered graphs are graphs with recursive clustering structures. Both have applications in CASE tools, software visualization, and VLSI design. Drawing algorithms for hierarchical graphs have been well investigated. However, the problem of straight-line representation has not been solved completely. In this paper, we answer the question: does every planar hierarchical graph admit a planar straight-line hierarchical drawing? We present an algorithm that constructs such drawings in linear time. Also, we answer a basic question for clustered graphs, that is, does every planar clustered graph admit a planar straight-line drawing with clusters drawn as convex polygons? We provide a method for such drawings based on our algorithm for hierarchical graphs.
acm728899	A Bayesian Paradigm for Dynamic Graph Layout	acm647549	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 5th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	236	247	null	2	P286704	1997	0	null
acm728901	Drawing Clustered Graphs on an Orthogonal Grid	acm647549	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 5th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	146	157	null	2	P223968	1997	0	Clustered graphs are graphs with recursive clustering structures over the vertices. For graphical representation, the clustering structure is rep- resented by a simple region that contains the drawing of all the vertices which belong to that cluster. In this paper, we present an algorithm which produces planar drawings of clustered graphs in a convention known as orthogonal grid rectangular cluster drawings. If the input graph has n vertices, then the algorithm produces in O(n) time a drawing with O(n2) area and at most 3 bends in each edge. This result is as good as existing results for classical planar graphs. Further, we show that our algorithm is optimal in terms of the number of bends per edge.
acm728911	Graph Clustering 1: Circles of Cliques	acm647549	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 5th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	158	168	null	1	P457399	1997	0	null
acm729077	Balanced Aspect Ratio Trees and Their Use for Drawing Very Large Graphs	acm647550	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 6th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	111	124	null	3	P46578	1998	1	We describe a new approach for cluster-based drawing of large graphs, which obtains clusters by using binary space partition (BSP) trees. We also introduce a novel BSP-type decomposition, called the balanced aspect ratio (BAR) tree, which guarantees that the cells produced are convex and have bounded aspect ratios. In addition, the tree depth is O(log n), and its construction takes O(n log n) time, where n is the number of points. We show that the BAR tree can be used to recursively divide a graph embedded in the plane into subgraphs of roughly equal size, such that the drawing of each subgraph has a balanced aspect ratio. As a result, we obtain a representation of a graph as a collection of O(log n) layers, where each succeeding layer represents the graph in an increasing level of detail. The overall running time of the algorithm is O(n log n+m+D0 (G)), where n and m are the number of vertices and edges of the graph G, and D0 (G) is the time it takes to obtain an initial embedding of G in the plane. In particular, if the graph is planar each layer is a graph drawn with straight lines and without crossings on the n x n grid and the running time reduces to O(n log n).
acm729095	A Fully Animated Interactive System for Clustering and Navigating Huge Graphs	acm647550	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 6th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	374	383	null	2	P187155	1998	0	This paper describes DA-TU, which combines an animated clustering and an online force-directed animated graph drawing method for the visualization of huge graphs.
acm729230	A Framework for Circular Drawings of Networks	acm647551	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 7th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	107	116	null	2	P466953	1999	0	Drawings of graphs which show the inherent strengths and weaknesses of structures with clustered views would be advantageous additions to many network design tools. In this paper we present a framework for producing circular drawings of networks represented by nonbiconnected graphs. Furthermore, the drawings produced by these techniques clearly show the biconnectivity structure of the given networks. We also include results of an extensive experimental study which shows our approach to significantly outperform the current state of the art.
acm729409	FADE: Graph Drawing, Clustering, and Visual Abstraction	acm647552	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 8th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	197	210	null	2	P440936	2000	1	A fast algorithm(FADE ) for the 2D drawing, geometric clustering and multilevel viewing of large undirected graphs is presented. The algorithm is an extension of the Barnes-Hut hierarchical space decomposition method, which includes edges and multilevel visual abstraction. Compared to the original force directed algorithm, the time overhead is $O(e + n \log n)$ where n and e are the numbers of nodes and edges. The improvement is possible since the decomposition tree provides a systematic way to determine the degree of closeness between nodes without explicitly calculating the distance between each node. Different types of regular decomposition trees are introduced. The decomposition tree also represents a hierarchical clustering of the nodes, which improves in a graph theoretic sense as the graph drawing approaches a lower energy state. Finally, the decomposition tree provides a mechanism to view the hierarchical clustering on various levels of abstraction. Larger graphs can be represented more concisely, on a higher level of abstraction, with fewer graphics on screen.
acm729414	A Multilevel Algorithm for Force-Directed Graph Drawing	acm647552	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 8th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	171	182	null	1	P46410	2000	0	We describe a heuristic method for drawing graphs which uses a multilevel technique combined with a force-directed placement algorithm. The multilevel process groups vertices to form clusters, uses the clusters to define a new graph and is repeated until the graph size falls below some threshold. The coarsest graph is then given an initial layout and the layout is successively refined on all the graphs starting with the coarsest and ending with the original. In this way the multilevel algorithm both accelerates and gives a more global quality to the force-directed placement. The algorithm can compute both 2 and 3 dimensional layouts and we demonstrate it on a number of examples ranging from 500 to 225,000 vertices. It is also very fast and can compute a 2D layout of a sparse graph in around 30 seconds for a 10,000 vertex graph to around 10 minutes for the largest graph. This is an order of magnitude faster than recent implementations of force-directed placement algorithms.
acm729561	Graph Drawing in Motion II	acm647553	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Revised Papers from the 9th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	220	231	null	2	P448313	2001	0	Enabling the user of a graph drawing system to preserve the mental map between two different layouts of a graph is a major problem. Whenever a layout in a graph drawing system is modified, the mental map of the user must be preserved. One way in which the user can be helped in understanding a change of layout is through animation of the change. In this paper, we present clustering-based strategies for identifying groups of nodes sharing a common, simple motion from initial layout to final layout. Transformation of these groups is then handled separately in order to generate a smooth animation.
acm730920	Encoding Presentation Emphasis Algorithms for Graphs	acm647546	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the DIMACS International Workshop on Graph Drawing	428	435	null	1	P77263	1994	3	While graphs can effectively visualize one or more relations on a set of elements, drawings of large graphs can be difficult to understand. As such, many presentation emphasis techniques for visualizing graphs such as fisheye views have been proposed. A recent survey paper [9] described an abstract space of techniques and identified common shortcomings. Here we outline a highlevel language that addresses several of these limitations; the language is used to: 1) select subsets of graph elements; 2) compute a real-valued priority for each element; and, 3) encode presentation strategies that automatically emphasize elements based on subset membership and priority.
acm730925	Reduction of Visual Complexity in Dynamic Graphs	acm647546	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the DIMACS International Workshop on Graph Drawing	218	225	null	4	P69495	1994	0	Graphs are used extensively in software visualization to represent both static aspects of software structure and dynamic aspects of execution-time behavior. However, for realistic subject software systems, there are far too many nodes and edges in the displayed graphs to be comprehensible to an end user. Further, for presentation of dynamics, continual change and redisplay of such large graphs is too demanding for conventional workstation computational resources. This paper poses the problem of ``reduction'' or ``abstraction'' in dynamically changing graphs, and proposes a combination of techniques that can be used to reduce the visual complexity of a graph, without obscuring the significant information that it was meant to convey. These techniques are illustrated by way of examples showing their use in systems for visualization of object-oriented and multi-layer software systems.
acm730930	A Simple Algorithm for Drawing Large Graphs on Small Screens	acm647546	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the DIMACS International Workshop on Graph Drawing	278	281	null	3	P157384	1994	0	Viewing a large graph in limited display space has traditionally been accomplished using either reduced scale rendering of the graph or by attaching scrollbars to a view window which shows only a small portion of the entire graph. Recent work, however,has concentrated on integrating a locally detailed view with a globally scaled view. We present an algorithm for constructing a view which smoothly integrates local detail and global context in a single view window and describe user interaction with such a display.
acm730931	D Visualization of Program Information	acm647546	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the DIMACS International Workshop on Graph Drawing	12	24	null	1	P270242	1994	0	null
acm731363	Searching and Discovery of Resources in Digital Libraries	acm647695	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Selected Papers from the Digital Libraries, Research and Technology Advances	191	199	null	4	P206639	1995	0	null
acm73350	Edge concentration: a method for clustering directed graphs	acm72910	Software Configuration Management Workshop: Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Software configuration management: ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes: Volume 14 , Issue 7 (November 1989)	76	85	null	1	P82211	1989	5	The display of a directed graph is a commonly used visual aid for representing relationships. However, some graphs contain so many edges that their display by traditional graph layout algorithms is virtually impossible because of the overwhelming number of crossings. Graphs representing large software systems and their configurations are particularly prone to this problem. Examples of such graphs include: graphs depicting a system's configuration, call graphs, graphs depicting import and export relationships between modules, and graphs depicting the "includes" relation among a system's source files. This paper proposes the elimination of some edges by replacing sets of edges that have the same set of source and target nodes by a special node called an edge concentration node. Reducing the number of edges often has the desirable side effect of reducing the number of crossings. An algorithm that determines a reasonable set of edge concentrations of a graph in O(n4) operations for each level in the graph is presented where n is the number of nodes in that level. Several examples from the area of software configuration management are shown to demonstrate the effectiveness of using edge concentrations.
acm73662	The cognitive coprocessor architecture for interactive user interfaces	acm73660	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 2nd annual ACM SIGGRAPH symposium on User interface software and technology	10	18	Design Tools and Techniques, User interfaces, INFORMATION STORAGE AND RETRIEVAL, Three-Dimensional Graphics and Realism, Subjects: Animation	3	P91941	1989	2	The graphics capabilities and speed of current hardware systems allow the exploration of 3D and animation in user interfaces, while improving the degree of interaction as well. In order to fully utilize these capabilities, new software architectures must support multiple, asynchronous, interacting agents (the Multiple Agent Problem), and support smooth interactive animation (the Animation Problem). The Cognitive Coprocessor is a new user interface architecture designed to solve these two problems, while supporting highly interactive user interfaces that have 2D and 3D animations. This architecture includes 3D Rooms, a 3D analogy to the Rooms system with Rooms Buttons extended to Interactive Objects that deal with 3D, animation, and gestures. This research is being tested in the domain of Information Visualization, which uses 2D and 3D animated artifacts to represent the structure of information. A prototype, called the Information Visualizer, has been built.
acm7478	Reliable communication in the presence of failures	acm7351	ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS): Volume 5 , Issue 1 (February 1987): 	47	76	reliability, atomic broadcast, fault-tolerant process groups, reliable broadcast	2	P159920	1987	12	The design and correctness of a communication facility for a distributed computer system are reported on. The facility provides support for fault-tolerant process groups in the form of a family of reliable multicast protocols that can be used in both local- and wide-area networks. These protocols attain high levels of concurrency, while respecting application-specific delivery ordering constraints, and have varying cost and performance that depend on the degree of ordering desired. In particular, a protocol that enforces causal delivery orderings is introduced and shown to be a valuable alternative to conventional asynchronous communication protocols. The facility also ensures that the processes belonging to a fault-tolerant process group will observe consistent orderings of events affecting the group as a whole, including process failures, recoveries, migration, and dynamic changes to group properties like member rankings. A review of several uses for the protocols in the ISIS system, which supports fault-tolerant resilient objects and bulletin boards, illustrates the significant simplification of higher level algorithms made possible by our approach.
acm757113	Multilevel Visualization of Clustered Graphs	acm647548	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the Symposium on Graph Drawing	101	112	null	2	P223968	1996	0	Clustered graphs are graphs with recursive clustering structures over the vertices. This type of structure appears in many systems. Examples include CASE tools, management information systems, VLSI design tools, and reverse engineering systems. Existing layout algorithms represent the clustering structure as recursively nested regions in the plane. However, as the structure becomes more and more complex, two dimensional plane representations tend to be insufficient. In this paper, firstly, we describe some two dimensional plane drawing algorithms for clustered graphs; then we show how to extend two dimensional plane drawings to three dimensional multilevel drawings. We consider two conventions: straight-line convex drawings and orthogonal rectangular drawings; and we show some examples.
acm757116	Drawing Large Graphs with H3Viewer and Site Manager	acm647550	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 6th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	384	393	null	1	P278221	1998	3	We demonstrate the H3Viewer graph drawing library, which can be run from a standalone program or in conjunction with other programs such as SGI's Site Manager application. Our layout and drawing algorithms support interactive navigation of large graphs up to 100,000 edges. We present an adaptive drawing algorithm with a guaranteed frame rate. Both layout and navigation occur in 3D hyperbolic space, which provides a view of a large neighborhood around an easily changeable point of interest. We find an appropriate spanning tree to use as the backbone for fast layout and uncluttered drawing, and non-tree links can be displayed on demand. Our methods are appropriate when node or link annotations can guide the choice of a good parent from among all of the incoming links. Such annotations can be constructed using only a small amount of domain-specific knowledge, thus rendering tractable many graphs which may seem rather densely connected at first glance.
acm757117	Planarity-Preserving Clustering and Embedding for Large Planar Graphs	acm647551	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Proceedings of the 7th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	186	196	null	3	P46578	1999	0	In this paper we present a novel approach for cluster-based drawing of large planar graphs that maintains planarity. Our technique works for arbitrary planar graphs and produces a clustering which satisfies the conditions for compound-planarity (c-planarity). Using the clustering, we obtain a representation of the graph as a collection of O(log n) layers, where each succeeding layer represents the graph in an increasing level of detail. At the same time, the diference between two graphs on neighboring layers of the hierarchy is small, thus preserving the viewer's mental map. The overall running time of the algorithm is O(n log n), where n is the number of vertices of graph G.
acm757122	Graph Drawing by High-Dimensional Embedding	acm647554	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Revised Papers from the 10th International Symposium on Graph Drawing	207	219	null	2	P61889	2002	0	We present a novel approach to the aesthetic drawing of undirected graphs. The method has two phases: first embed the graph in a very high dimension and then project it into the 2-D plane using PCA. Experiments we have carried out show the ability of the method to draw graphs of 105 nodes in few seconds. The new method appears to have several advantages over classical methods, including a significantly better running time, a useful inherent capability to exhibit the graph in various dimensions, and an effective means for interactive exploration of large graphs.
acm760270	BiblioMapper: A Cluster-Based Information Visualization Technique	acm647341	INFOVIS: Proceedings of the 1998 IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization	130	136	null	1	P504109	1998	0	The purpose of the paper is to develop a visualization system of a document space, called BiblioMapper, for CISI collections, one of the bibliographic databases available on the Internet. The major function of BiblioMapper is to visualize the document space with a cluster-based visualization technique. The cluster-based visualization technique assembles a set of documents according to semantic similarities. One advantage of this technique is that users are able to focus on and assess each cluster and the documents which the cluster comprises according to their information needs.
acm760413	Integrating Natural Language With Large Dataspace Visualization	acm647493	Lecture Notes In Computer Science: Selected Papers from the Digital Libraries Workshop on Digital Libraries Current Issues	209	223	null	3	P464499	1994	0	null
acm76334	Models for visualization in parallel debuggers	acm76263	Conference on High Performance Networking and Computing: Proceedings of the 1989 ACM/IEEE conference on Supercomputing	627	636	design, experimentation, languages	2	P38039	1989	10	The complexity of parallel programming has stimulated the development of a variety of debugging tools. This survey of recent research focuses on debugger visualization systems. The effectiveness of such systems is bounded by the degree to which their representations of run-time behavior correlate with the language structures used to incorporate parallelism, as well as the logical framework adopted by the programmer. Current visualization systems are compared with the conceptual models supported by parallel languages. Attention is drawn to the fact that debuggers are tied to specific models and that this association may restrict their usefulness and acceptability.
acm76897	Debugging concurrent programs	acm76894	ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR): Volume 21 , Issue 4 (December 1989): 	593	622	Distributed computing, event history, nondeterminism, parallel processing, probe-effect, program replay, program visualization, static analysis	2	P43727	1989	36	The main problems associated with debugging concurrent programs are increased complexity, the "probe effect," nonrepeatability, and the lack of a synchronized global clock. The probe effect refers to the fact that any attempt to observe the behavior of a distributed system may change the behavior of that system. For some parallel programs, different executions with the same data will result in different results even without any attempt to observe the behavior. Even when the behavior can be observed, in many systems the lack of a synchronized global clock makes the results of the observation difficult to interpret. This paper discusses these and other problems related to debugging concurrent programs and presents a survey of current techniques used in debugging concurrent programs. Systems using three general techniques are described: traditional or breakpoint style debuggers, event monitoring systems, and static analysis systems. In addition, techniques for limiting, organizing, and displaying a large amount of data produced by the debugging systems are discussed.
acm769924	Visual hierarchical dimension reduction for exploration of high dimensional datasets	acm769922	ACM International Conference Proceeding Series: Proceedings of the symposium on Data visualisation 2003	19	28	dimensionality reduction, visual hierarchy, parallel coordinates, scatterplot matrices	4	P129424	2003	12	Traditional visualization techniques for multidimensional data sets, such as parallel coordinates, glyphs, and scatterplot matrices, do not scale well to high numbers of dimensions. A common approach to solving this problem is dimensionality reduction. Existing dimensionality reduction techniques usually generate lower dimensional spaces that have little intuitive meaning to users and allow little user interaction. In this paper we propose a new approach to handling high dimensional data, named Visual Hierarchical Dimension Reduction (VHDR), that addresses these drawbacks. VHDR not only generates lower dimensional spaces that are meaningful to users, but also allows user interactions in most steps of the process. In VHDR, dimensions are grouped into a hierarchy, and lower dimensional spaces are constructed using clusters of the hierarchy. We have implemented the VHDR approach into XmdvTool, and extended several traditional multidimensional visualization methods to convey dimension cluster characteristics when visualizing the data set in lower dimensional spaces. Our case study of applying VHDR to a real data set supports our belief that this approach is effective in supporting the exploration of high dimensional data sets.
acm775064	Query analysis and visualization of hierarchically structured data using Polaris	acm775047	Conference on Knowledge Discovery in Data: Proceedings of the eighth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining	112	122	databases, data warehouses, OLAP, hierarchical projection	3	P337868	2002	14	In the last several years, large OLAP databases have become common in a variety of applications such as corporate data warehouses and scientific computing. To support interactive analysis, many of these databases are augmented with hierarchical structures that provide meaningful levels of abstraction that can be leveraged by both the computer and analyst. This hierarchical structure generates many challenges and opportunities in the design of systems for the query, analysis, and visualization of these databases.In this paper, we present an interactive visual exploration tool that facilitates exploratory analysis of data warehouses with rich hierarchical structure, such as might be stored in data cubes. We base this tool on Polaris, a system for rapidly constructing table-based graphical displays of multidimensional databases. Polaris builds visualizations using an algebraic formalism derived from the interface and interpreted as a set of queries to a database. We extend the user interface, algebraic formalism, and generation of data queries in Polaris to expose and take advantage of hierarchical structure. In the resulting system, analysts can navigate through the hierarchical projections of a database, rapidly and incrementally generating visualizations for each projection.
acm776774	Communicating Centrality in Policy Network Drawings	acm776751	IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics: Volume 9 , Issue 2 (April 2003): 	241	253	Information visualization, graph drawing, force-directed placement, social network analysis, centrality.	3	P286704	2003	16	We introduce a network visualization technique that supports an analytical method applied in the social sciences. Policy network analysis is an approach to study policy making structures, processes, and outcomes, thereby concentrating on relations between policy actors. An important operational concept for the analysis of policy networks is the notion of centrality, i.e., the distinction of actors according to their importance in a relational structure. We integrate this measure in a layout model for networks by mapping structural to geometric centrality. Thus, centrality values and network data can be presented simultaneously and explored interactively.
acm778316	Visualization	acm778212	Handbook of data mining and knowledge discovery	707	714	visualization, knowledge discovery in databases	1	P99212	2002	5	This chapter describes visualization methods. It describes their relationship both to scientific visualization and to statistical graphics. The use of visualization for knowledge discovery in databases (KDD) is described with attention to large databases, textual analysis, networks, time-based data, highly multivariate data, and usage by domain experts. Visualization methods are proposed as an aid both in pre- and postmodeling.
acm779243	External memory algorithms	acm779232	Handbook of massive data sets	359	416	Fourier transform, I/O complexity, RAID, batched computational geometry, batched graph problems, batched sorting, disk block, disk striping, external memory, indivisibility assumption, locality and load balancing, out-of-core, parallel disk model	1	P138075	2002	78	Data sets in large applications are often too massive to fit completely inside the computer's internal memory. The resulting input/output communication (or I/O) between fast internal memory and slower external memory (such as disks) can be a major performance bottleneck. In this paper we survey the state of the art in the design and analysis of external memory (or EM) algorithms, where the goal is to exploit locality in order to reduce the I/O costs.For sorting and related problems like permuting and fast Fourier transform, the key paradigms include distribution and merging. The paradigm of disk striping offers an elegant way to use multiple disks in parallel. For sorting, however, disk striping can be nonoptimal with respect to I/O, so to gain further improvements we discuss distribution and merging techniques for using the disks independently. We consider EM paradigms for computations involving matrixes, geometric data, and graphs, and we look at problems caused by dynamic memory allocation. We report on some experiments in the domain of spatial databases using the TPIE system (Transparent Parallel I/O programming Environment). The newly developed EM algorithms and data structures that incorporate the paradigms we discuss in this chapter are significantly faster than methods currently used in practice.
acm78223	Envisioning information	null	ISBN: 0-9613921-1-8	126	null	null	1	P75581	1990	0	null
acm785915	Query Previews in Networked Information Systems	acm785905	ADL: Proceedings of the 3rd International Forum on Research and Technology Advances in Digital Libraries	120	null	Direct Manipulation, Dynamic Query, Information System, Network, Preview Bar, Query Preview, Science Data, Volume Preview, User Interface	3	P161427	1996	6	In a networked information system (such as the NASA Earth Observing System--Data Information System (EOSDIS)), there are three major obstacles facing users in a querying process: network performance, data volume and data complexity. In order to overcome these obstacles, we propose a two-phase approach to query formulation. The two phases are the Query Preview and the Query Refinement. In the Query Preview phase, users formulate an initial query by selecting rough attribute values. The estimated number of matching data sets is shown graphically on preview bars which allows users to rapidly focus on a manageable number of relevant data sets. Query previews also prevent wasted steps by eliminating zero-hit queries. When the estimated number of data sets is low enough, the initial query is submitted to the network, which returns the metadata of the data sets for further refinement in the Query Refinement phase. The two-phase approach to query formulation overcomes slow network performance, and reduces the data volume and data complexity problems. This approach is especially appropriate for users who do not have extensive knowledge about the data and who prefer an exploratory method to discover data patterns and exceptions. Using this approach, we have developed dynamic query user interfaces to allow users to formulate their queries across a networked environment.
acm79026	A node-positioning algorithm for general trees	acm79019	Software-Practice &amp; Experience: Volume 20 , Issue 7 (July 1990): 	685	705	graph theory, trees	1	P128972	1990	0	null
acm794386	Non-parametric Similarity Measures for Unsupervised Texture Segmentation and Image Retrieval	acm794189	CVPR: Proceedings of the 1997 Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR '97)	267	272	null	3	P134270	1997	0	In this paper we propose and examine non-parametric statistical tests to define similarity and homogeneity measures for textures. The statistical tests are applied to the coefficients of images filtered by a multi-scale Gabor filter bank. We will demonstrate that these similarity measures are useful for both, texture based image retrieval and for unsupervised texture segmentation, and hence offer an unified approach to these closely related tasks. We present results on Brodatz-like micro-textures and a collection of real-word images.
acm794502	Normalized Cuts and Image Segmentation	acm794189	CVPR: Proceedings of the 1997 Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR '97)	731	737	grouping, image segmentation, graph partitioning	2	P139748	1997	1	We propose a novel approach for solving the perceptual grouping problem in vision. Rather than focusing on local features and their consistencies in the image data, our approach aims at extracting the global impression of an image. We treat image segmentation as a graph partitioning problem and propose a novel global criterion, the normalized cut, for segmenting the graph. The normalized cut criterion measures both the total dissimilarity between the different groups as well as the total similarity within the groups. We show that an efficient computational technique based on a generalized eigenvalue problem can be used to optimize this criterion. We have applied this approach to segmenting static images and found results very encouraging.
acm801140	INCENSE: A system for displaying data structures	acm800059	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 10th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 17 , Issue 3 (July 1983)	115	125	structured programming, user interfaces, design, human factors, languages	1	P31915	1983	5	Many modern computer languages allow the programmer to define and use a variety of data types. Few programming systems, however, allow the programmer similar flexibility when displaying the data structures for debugging, monitoring and documenting programs. Incense is a working prototype system that allows the programmer to interactively investigate data structures in actual programs. The desired displays can be specified by the programmer or a default can be used. The default displays provided by Incense present the standard form for literals of the basic types, the actual names for scalar types, stacked boxes for records and arrays, and curved lines with arrowheads for pointers. In addition to displaying data structures, Incense also allows the user to select, move, erase and redimension the resulting displays. These interactions are provided in a uniform, natural manner using a pointing device (mouse ) and keyboard.
acm801801	Towards specifying and evaluating the human factors of user-computer interfaces	acm800049	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the 1982 conference on Human factors in computing systems	309	314	null	2	P333992	1982	6	Despite the current interest in user-computer interfaces, the design of a good interface remains to a great extent an art, with much argument over guidelines and principles for interface design. Pertinent information, scattered throughout the literature of psychology, graphic design. linguistics, hardware design, and under the general umbrella of computer science, is only gradually being gathered into survey publications for application by computer scientists [1,4,12,15]. Our purpose is to design a specification language which will serve as a vehicle for the design of and experimentation with user-computer interfaces. The specification language not only defines the external characteristics of the interface, but can also be analyzed to determine whether the interface meets a set of generally-accepted human factors guidelines. We believe the language is general enough to be used with principles of interface design other than those we have proposed.
acm806818	A lens and aperture camera model for synthetic image generation	acm800224	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 8th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 15 , Issue 3 (August 1981)	297	305	Camera model, Computer graphics, Lens and aperture, Raster displays, Visible surface algorithms	2	P198482	1981	4	This paper extends the traditional pin-hole camera projection geometry, used in computer graphics, to a more realistic camera model which approximates the effects of a lens and an aperture function of an actual camera. This model allows the generation of synthetic images which have a depth of field, can be focused on an arbitrary plane, and also permits selective modeling of certain optical characteristics of a lens. The model can be expanded to include motion blur and special effect filters. These capabilities provide additional tools for highlighting important areas of a scene and for portraying certain physical characteristics of an object in an image.
acm808590	Distributed ray tracing	acm800031	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 11th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 18 , Issue 3 (July 1984)	137	145	Camera, Constructive solid geometry, Depth of field, Focus, Gloss, Motion blur, Penumbras, Ray tracing, Shadows, Translucency, Transparency	3	P244499	1984	3	Ray tracing is one of the most elegant techniques in computer graphics. Many phenomena that are difficult or impossible with other techniques are simple with ray tracing, including shadows, reflections, and refracted light. Ray directions, however, have been determined precisely, and this has limited the capabilities of ray tracing. By distributing the directions of the rays according to the analytic function they sample, ray tracing can incorporate fuzzy phenomena. This provides correct and easy solutions to some previously unsolved or partially solved problems, including motion blur, depth of field, penumbras, translucency, and fuzzy reflections. Motion blur and depth of field calculations can be integrated with the visible surface calculations, avoiding the problems found in previous methods. 
acm808596	A system for algorithm animation	acm800031	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 11th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 18 , Issue 3 (July 1984)	177	186	algorithm animation, computer science education, algorithm design, algorithm analysis	2	P187299	1984	2	A software environment is described which provides facilities at a variety of levels for "animating" algorithms: exposing properties of programs by displaying multiple dynamic views of the program and associated data structures. The system is operational on a network of graphics-based, personal workstations and has been used successfully in several applications for teaching and research in computer science and mathematics. In this paper, we outline the conceptual framework that we have developed for animating algorithms, describe the system that we have implemented, and give several examples drawn from the host of algorithms that we have animated.
acm81354	Computer-aided fighter pilots	acm81351	IEEE Spectrum: Volume 27 , Issue 3 (March 1990): 	38	41	aerospace computing, expert systems, human factors, military systems, software engineering, PA, Pilot's Associate, air-to-air combat, computer-aided fighter pilots, expert system, human-factors, mission goal, operational characteristics, plan-goal graph, real-time responses, software modules	3	P294966	1990	0	It is shown how an interdisciplinary team overcame technical and organizational hurdles to develop an expert system that tailors its real-time responses to a pilot's flying style. The system, called the Pilot's Associate (PA), besides the pilot's inputs, required in its knowledge bases expertise from human-factors specialists to decide how the information should be displayed, from psychologists to establish benchmarks for pilot performance in combat, and from engineers to define the relevant operational characteristics that need to be monitored by the expert system. It was designed to make expert recommendations without stopping to quiz pilots during air-to-air combat. The key to the system architecture is a plan-goal graph, which describes the elements used to link a pilot's actions, or plans, with a particular mission goal. The plan-goal graph is described, and a simple example is given to illustrate its use. The tasks of reconciling differing design requirements and of finding effective ways to communicate, both among human designers and among the software modules themselves, are discussed
acm833835	Visualization of Biological Sequence Similarity Search Results	acm832271	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 6th conference on Visualization '95	44	51	visualization, molecular biology , protein, DNA, sequence, similarity search	6	P74503	1995	1	Biological sequence similarity analysis presents visualization challenges, primarily because of the massive amounts of discrete, multi-dimensional data. Genomic data generated by molecular biologists is analyzed by algorithms that search for similarity to known sequences in large genomic databases. The output from these algorithms can be several thousand pages of text, and is difficult to analyze because of its length and complexity. We developed and implemented a novel graphical representation for sequence similarity search results, which visually reveals features that are difficult to find in textual reports. The method opens new possibilities in the interpretation of this discrete, multi-dimensional data by enabling interactive investigation of the graphical representation.
acm833844	High Dimensional Brushing for Interactive Exploration of Multivariate Data	acm832271	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 6th conference on Visualization '95	271	null	brushing, multivariate data visualization, visual data exploration	2	P549630	1995	5	Brushing is an operation found in many data visualization systems. It is a mechanism for interactively selecting subsets of the data so that they may be highlighted, deleted, or masked. Traditionally, brushes have been defined in screen space via methods such as painting and rubberband rectangles. In this paper we describe the design of N-dimensional brushes which are defined in data space rather than screen space, and show how they have been integrated into XmdvTool, a visualization package for displaying multivariate data. Depending on the data display technique in use, brushes may be specified and manipulated via direct or indirect methods, and the specification may be demand-driven or data-driven. Various brush operations such as highlighting, linking, masking, moving average, and quantitative display have been developed to apply to the selected data. In addition, we have explored several new brush concepts, such as non-discrete brush boundaries, simultaneous display of multiple brushes, and creating composite brushes via logical operators. Preliminary experimental evaluation with test subjects supports the usefulness of N-dimensional brushes in data exploration tasks.
acm833846	Recursive Pattern: A Technique for Visualizing Very Large Amounts of Data	acm832271	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 6th conference on Visualization '95	279	null	Visualizing Large Data Sets, Visualizing Multidimensional and Multivariate Data, Visualizing Large Sequential Data Sets, Recursive Visualization Techniques, Interfaces to Databases	3	P58960	1995	19	An important goal of visualization technology is to support the exploration and analysis of very large amounts of data. In this paper, we propose a new visualization technique called `recursive pattern' which has been developed for visualizing large amounts of multidimensional data. The technique is based on a generic recursive scheme which generalizes a wide range of pixel-oriented arrangements for displaying large data sets. By instantiating the technique with adequate data- and application-dependent parameters, the user may largely influence the structure of the resulting visualizations. Since the technique uses one pixel for presenting each data value, the amount of data which can be displayed is only limited by the resolution of current display technology and by the limitations of human perceptibility. Beside describing the basic idea of the `recursive pattern' technique, we provide several examples of useful parameter settings for the various recursion levels. We further show that our `recursive pattern ' technique is particularly advantageous for the large class of data sets which have a natural order according to one dimension (e.g. time series data). We demonstrate the usefulness of our technique by using a stock market application.
acm833851	Iconic Techniques for Feature Visualization	acm832271	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 6th conference on Visualization '95	288	295	scientific visualization, feature extraction, iconic visualization, attribute calculation	4	P87141	1995	6	Presents a conceptual framework and a process model for feature extraction and iconic visualization. Feature extraction is viewed as a process of data abstraction, which can proceed in multiple stages, and corresponding data abstraction levels. The features are represented by attribute sets, which play a key role in the visualization process. Icons are symbolic parametric objects, designed as visual representations of features. The attributes are mapped to the parameters (or degrees of freedom) of an icon. We describe some generic techniques to generate attribute sets, such as volume integrals and medial axis transforms. A simple but powerful modeling language was developed to create icons, and to link the attributes to the icon parameters. We present illustrative examples of iconic visualization created with the techniques described, showing the effectiveness of this approach.
acm833862	A rule-based tool for assisting colormap selection	acm832271	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 6th conference on Visualization '95	118	125	IBM Visualization Data Explorer, PRAVDAColor, colormap selection, colour graphics, data analysis, data type, data visualisation, expert systems, human perceptual system, rule-based tool, spatial frequency	3	P551247	1995	7	The paper presents an interactive approach for guiding the user's select of colormaps in visualization. PRAVDAColor, implemented as a module in the IBM Visualization Data Explorer, provides the user a selection of appropriate colormaps given the data type and spatial frequency, the user's task, and properties of the human perceptual system
acm833874	Subverting Structure: Data-Driven Diagram Generation	acm832271	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 6th conference on Visualization '95	217	223	AVE, Automatic Visualization Environment, data visualization, data-driven diagram generation, semantic networks	3	P94710	10-29-1995	4	Diagrams are data representations that convey information predominantly through combinations of graphical elements rather than through other channels such as text or interaction. We have implemented a prototype called AVE (Automatic Visualization Environment) that generates diagrams automatically based on a generative theory of diagram design. According to this theory, diagrams are constructed based on the data to be visualized rather than by selection from a predefined set of diagrams. This approach can be applied to knowledge represented by semantic networks. We give a brief introduction to the underlying theory, then describe the implementation and finally discuss strategies for extending the algorithm
acm833884	An Architecture for Retaining and Analyzing Visual Explorations of Databases	acm832271	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 6th conference on Visualization '95	101	108	visual database exploration, database visualization, metadata, user modeling, interaction	2	P465743	11-1995	6	A software architecture is presented to integrate a database management system with data visualization. One of its primary objectives, the retention of user-data interactions, is detailed. By storing all queries over the data along with high-level descriptions of the query results and the associated visualization, the processes by which a database is explored can be analyzed. This approach can lead to important contributions in the development of user models as data explorers, metadata models for scientific databases, intelligent assistants and data exploration services. We describe the underlying elements of this approach, specifically the visual database exploration model and the metadata objects that support the model.
acm833887	Authenticity Analysis of Wavelet Approximations in Visualization	acm832271	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 6th conference on Visualization '95	184	191	Wavelet transform, Data compression, Data visualization, Multiresolution visualization	2	P218971	10-29-1995	7	Wavelet transforms include data decompositions and reconstructions. This paper is concerned with the authenticity issues of the data decomposition, particularly for data visualization. A total of six datasets are used to clarify the approximation characteristics of compactly supported orthogonal wavelets. We present an error tracking mechanism, which uses the available wavelet resources to measure the quality of the wavelet approximations
acm834348	Collaborative Active Textbooks: A Web-Based Algorithm Animation System for an Electronic Classroom	acm832277	VL: Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages	266	275	algorithm theory, computer animation, computer science education, data visualization, multimedia computing, algorithm animation	2	P187299	1996	4	The paper describes CAT, a Web-based algorithm animation system. CAT augments the expressive power of Web pages for publishing passive multimedia information with a full-fledged interactive algorithm animation system. It improves on previous Web-based algorithm animations by providing a framework that makes it easy to construct new animations, including those that involve multiple views. Because views of the same running algorithm may reside on different machines, CAT is particularly well-suited for electronic classrooms. This strategy is an improvement over the electronic classroom systems the authors are aware of which simply display the same X window on multiple machines. They believe their framework generalizes to electronic textbooks in arbitrary domains
acm834354	The Eyes Have It: A Task by Data Type Taxonomy for Information Visualizations	acm832277	VL: Proceedings of the 1996 IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages	336	343	visualization, information visualization, graphical user interfaces	1	P28685	09-03-1996	41	A useful starting point for designing advanced graphical user interfaces is the visual information seeking Mantra: overview first, zoom and filter, then details on demand. But this is only a starting point in trying to understand the rich and varied set of information visualizations that have been proposed in recent years. The paper offers a task by data type taxonomy with seven data types (one, two, three dimensional data, temporal and multi dimensional data, and tree and network data) and seven tasks (overview, zoom, filter, details-on-demand, relate, history, and extracts)
acm834481	Fluid Visualization of Spreadsheet Structures	acm832279	VL: Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages	118	125	information visualization, spreadsheet, animation, dataflow graph, fluid user interfaces	4	P277957	09-01-1998	19	Spreadsheets augment a visible tabular layout with invisible formulas. Direct manipulations of the tabular layout may or may not result in the desired changes to the formulas. The user is forced to explore the individual cells to find, verify, and modify the formulas, which causes heavy cognitive overhead. We present a set of techniques that make these formulas and their resulting dataflow structure easily accessible while maintaining the natural appearance of the spreadsheet. Transient local views visualize dataflow structures associated with individual cells, while static global views and animated global explanations visually present the entire dataflow structure at once. Semantic navigation enables the user to navigate through the dataflow structure interactively, and visual editing techniques make it possible to construct formulas using graphical editing techniques. Central to these techniques is the use of animation and lightweight interaction for rapid and non-intrusive visualization. Our prototype implementation suggests that these techniques can greatly improve the expressive power of current spreadsheets as well as other applications that have rich underlying structures
acm834493	VIQING: Visual Interactive QueryING	acm832279	VL: Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages	162	169	VIQING, query processing, visual databases, visual programming	4	P549923	1998	8	The paper presents VIQING, an environment for expressing queries via direct manipulation of data visualizations. VIQING provides a simple graphical interface for connecting visualizations, and has the expressive power of the basic relational operators select, project and join. VIQING has been implemented in the Tioga DataSplash visualization system to provide a seamless integration of querying and browsing. The resulting system is unique in providing a unified visual interface for developing database applications, encompassing both querying and data visualization
acm83821	Computer graphics: principles and practice (2nd ed.)	null	ISBN: 0-201-12110-7	1174	null	null	4	P132223	1990	0	null
acm850372	An Empirical Study of Task Support in 3D Information Visualizations	acm555607	IV: Proceedings of the 1999 International Conference on Information Visualisation	392	399	D information visualization, usability study, empirical study, navigation, overview Adobe Acrobat QuickTime Windows Media Player Real Player	2		1999	7	There is still little knowledge about what factors important for the usability of a 3D user interface. We have performed a comparative study of three 3D information visualizations as a step towards a better understanding of this. The study involved 25 volunteer subjects, performing three different tasks with the Information Landscape, Cam Tree, and Information Cube. The results of the study indicate that the subjects were significantly faster with the Information Landscape when compared with both other visualizations. The Cam Tree was significantly faster than the Information Cube. Our observations during the study indicate that local and global overview are extremely important factors. We also observed that custom navigation is crucial in 3D user interfaces. Finally, the study raises the question: for what types of tasks is a 3D user interface best suited?
acm856684	The STARLIGHT information visualization system	acm583017	IV: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Information Visualisation	42	49	D visualization techniques, STARLIGHT information visualization system, Starlight software, Windows NT-based operational systemIEEE Conference on Information Visualisation (IV '97), concurrent visualization techniques, digital imagery, geographic information, information analysis, information collections, information storage, information system, intelligence analysis applications, levels of abstraction, retrieval technologies, unstructured text, visual context, visualization-oriented user-interface	6	P127072	1997	9	STARLIGHT is an example of a new class of information system expressly designed around visualization-oriented user-interface. Incorporating more traditional information storage and retrieval technologies into its design, the STARLIGHT system also enables the integrated use of multiple, concurrent visualization techniques to support comparison of content and interrelationship information levels of abstraction simultaneously. This powerful new form of information analysis eases cognitive workloads by providing a visual context for the information under study. Originally developed for intelligence analysis applications, the STARLIGHT software is intended to support the rapid, concurrent analysis of complex multimedia information, including structured and unstructured text, geographic information, and digital imagery. The system uses novel 3-D visualization techniques that interactively generate easily understandable representations of explicit and implicit relationships contained in information collections of various types. This paper describes the general theory behind our approach, and the design and features of a Windows NT-based operational system
acm856685	Automatic abstraction management in information visualization systems	acm583017	IV: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Information Visualisation	50	56	CityVis, Telescope, abstraction scales, abstractor objects, automatic abstraction management, city dataIEEE Conference on Information Visualisation (IV '97), complex data, customizable infrastructure, data visualisation, information visualization systems, object-oriented architecture, reusable support, semantic zoom capabilities, software architectures	3	P548253	1997	9	The construction of information visualization systems is a difficult task. However, there is little research into the provision of software architectures for visualization systems to reduce this difficulty. Particularly, systems that provide a reusable support for the automatic management of the different levels of abstraction in which complex data can be observed cannot be found in current visualization systems. Telescope, an object-oriented architecture for visualization systems is presented. Its main goal is to provide a customizable infrastructure to develop visualization systems allowing the automatic management of the different levels of abstraction in which the visualized information can be observed. Telescope is based on the concept of abstractor objects which provides the generic behavior to support visualizations with semantic zoom capabilities controlled externally through abstraction scales. CityVis, a visualization system for city data, developed using the Telescope architecture, is also described
acm856693	Information Drill-down using Web tools	acm583017	IV: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Information Visualisation	118	125	data visualization, hypermedia, information drill-down, interactive data drilling	1	P200312	1997	0	Reviews the information visualization and interaction techniques needed to add another dimension to surfing the World Wide Web. Information visualization can be used to explore relationships by drilling down and retrieving more data within a region of interest in the visualized data, combining data mining, direct manipulation and data visualization with 3D Web tools. It is now possible to create desktop visualization applications that let users interact with databases with larger datasets over the network using both 2D and 3D interaction metaphors. The VRML standard allows users to view and navigate through 3D information data worlds and hyperlink to new worlds. Information drilling based on HTML's image map, VRML's anchor node and multiple predefined viewpoints is explained and demonstrated. The image map in 2D and 3D graphics objects (glyphs, etc.) represents the visual user interface to the information stored in the database. Over the next couple of years, we shall see 3D visualization evolve in giant steps into interactive data drilling on the Web, providing visualization technology closely integrated with the data warehouse and multidimensional abstract and geospatial data models
acm856694	A multi-scale multi-layer translucent virtual space	acm583017	IV: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Information Visualisation	124	131	D zoom, browsing, interactive technique, macroscope, multi-scale multi-layer translucent virtual space, relative scaleIEEE Conference on Information Visualisation (IV '97), viewfinders, virtual display spaces, virtual reality, widely disparate spatial scales	1	P103786	1997	6	The dynamic nature of virtual display spaces can provide powerful tools for helping people comprehend phenomena that occur over widely disparate spatial scales. This paper presents the macroscope, an interactive technique for browsing very large spaces of displayed information at different scales. The macroscope takes as a point of departure the traditional 2D zoom and pan operations, but introduces multiple translucent layers to avoid the problem of losing visual context. The third dimension is used to visually separate the layers and provide an external point of view for controlling the presentation. The user can manipulate viewfinders in the virtual space, which control the relative scale and position of the layers
acm863013	OLAP Solutions: Building Multidimensional Information Systems	acm863013	ISBN: 1401469183		null	OLAP, relational databases	1	P78888	2002	0	Although many commercial OLAP products are readily available -- as stand-alone tools and, increasingly, in close association with relational databases -- OLAP remains a difficult and complex technology to master. The second edition of Thomsen's classic OLAP Solutions provides a clear and comprehensive explanation of the concepts and best techniques for deploying OLAP -- no matter what tools you're using. This edition is thoroughly revised, offering expanded coverage of logical issues such as dimensional hierarchies, as well as physical issues of data storage, access, and calculation. Thomsen has also created an entirely new application section that provides a computational cross-value chain model of ten interconnected business processes within the context of a manufacturing company. The practical methods and formulas you'll learn are useful no matter what commercial OLAP tool(s) you use.
acm864453	Graphical Fisheye Views	acm198366	Communications of the ACM 37(12)	73	83	fisheye views, graphs	2	P186929	1993	5	This article explores a fisheye lens approach to viewing and browsing graphs. A fisheye view of a graph shows an area of interest quite large and with detail and shows other areas successively smaller and in less detail. It achieves this smooth integration of local detail and global context by repositioning and resizing elements of the graph. A fisheye lens seems to have all the advantages of the other approaches for viewing and browsing a graph without any of the drawbacks.
acm864484	Cone Trees in the UGA Graphics System: Suggestions for a More Robust Visualization Tool	acm864484	Brown University Technical Report CS-93-07		null	cone tree, FLESH, rapid prototyping	3	P212246	1993	0	The Xerox PARC cone tree is an efficient, practical tool for visualizing hierarchical information. It makes use of three-dimensional space to display more information than is possible in two dimensions. It employs animation and interactive selection to create a focal point on the structure. Shadows and perspective serve to enhance the effect. In this paper, we describe an implementation of cone trees under the UGA graphics architecture. The implementation is in the FLESH language -- an object-oriented graphics language that is the core of the UGA system. The FLESH language allows for rapid prototyping of three-dimensional widgets such as this. In addition to the rapid implementation, several extensions of the vanilla Xerox trees were implemented. A critique of the cone tree is offered, as well as suggestions for future direction of visualization of hierarchical data sets.
acm142673	Graphical Fisheye Views of Graphs	acm142750	Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems 1992	83	91	fisheye views, information visualization	2	P186929	1991	3	A fisheye lens is a very wide angle lens that shows places nearby in detail while also showing remote regions in successively less detail. This paper describes a system for viewing and browsing planar graphs using a software analog of a fisheye lens. We first show how to implement such a view using solely geometric transformations. We then describe a more general transformation that allows hierarchical, structured information about the graph to modify the views. Our general transformation is a fundamental extension to the previous research in fisheye views.
acm864776	Algorithms for Drawing Graphs: An Annotated Bibliography	acm864776	Brown University Technical Report CS-89-09		null	graph drawing, graph layouts	2	P223968	1988	0	Several data presentation problems involve drawing graphs so that they are easy to read and understand. Examples include circuit schematics and diagrams for information systems analysis and design. In this paper we present a bibliographic survey on algorithms whose goal is to produce aesthetically pleasing drawings of graphs. Research on this topic is spread over the broad spectrum of computer science. This bibliography constitutes a first attempt to encompass both theoretical and application-oriented papers from disparate areas.
acm864808	TANGO: A Framework and System for Algorithm Animation	acm864808	Brown University Technical Report CS-89-30		null	algorithm animation, TANGO	1	P577374	1989	0	Algorithm animation is the process of abstracting the data, operations, and semantics of computer programs, and then creating animated graphical views of those abstractions. Although a handful of algorithm animation systems have been developed in recent years, relatively little work has been done on the theoretical foundations of such systems. In this work we develop a conceptual framework with formal models and precise semantics for algorithm animation. The framework contains facilities for defining operations in an algorithm, designing animations, and mapping the algorithm operations to their corresponding animations. We introduce the framework to make animation design easier, as well as to provide a model that supports smooth, continuous image movement. We also present the {\em path-transition} paradigm that simplifies the animation design process. Concurrently, we develop an algorithm animation system called TANGO (Transition-based Animation Generation) based upon the framework. TANGO supports two-dimensional color animations in a window-based workstation environment. It provides programmers with the capabilities to produce sophisticated, real-time views of their programs with a minimum of graphics coding. Using TANGO, programmers create animations by writing routines in an algorithm animation design language or by using a direct-manipulation, demonstrational animation design tool.
acm864933	Exploiting Orthogonality in Three Dimensional Graphics for Visualizing Abstract Data	acm864933	Brown University Technical Report CS-95-20		null	orthogonality, data abstraction, visualization	1	P577440	1995	0	Using Three dimensional graphics to visualize abstract data presents an interesting challenge because, by definition, there is no physically intuitive counterpart to abstract data. Relatively little work has been done in exploring how to best utilize the third dimension to increase visualization capabilities beyond simply increasing the volume of data presented. This paper prsents a design principle that enriches the amount of semantic information that could be visualized by treating the third dimension not so much as one of three equivalent dimensions in three-space but as an independent channel of information.
acm866599	Automatic Structuring and Retrieval of Large Text Files	acm866599	Cornell University Technical Report TR92-1286		null	text analysis, hypertext, collection browsing, information retrieval	3	P96664	1992	0	In many operational environments, large text files must be processed covering a wide variety of different topic areas. Aids must then be provided to the user that permit collection browsing and make it possible to locate particular items on demand. The conventional text analysis methods based on preconstructed knowledge-bases and other vocabulary-control tools are difficult to apply when the subject coverage is unrestricted. An alternative approach, applicable to text collections in any subject area, is introduced which uses the document collections themselves as a basis for the text analysis, together with sophisticated text matching operations carried out at several levels of detail. Methods are described for relating semantically similar pieces of text, and for using the resulting hypertext structures for collection browsing and information retrieval.
acm867322	A Vector Space Model for Automatic Indexing	acm867322	Cornell University Technical Report TR74-218		null	pattern matching, vector space model, document retrieval	3	P96664	1974	0	In a document retieval, or other pattern matching environment where stored entities (documents) are compared with each other, or with incoming patterns (search requests), it appears that the best indexing (property) space is one where each entity lies as far away from the others as possible; that is, retrieval performance correlates inversely with space density. This result is used to choose an optimum indexing vocabulary for a collection of documents. Typical evaluation results are shown demonstrating the usefulness of the model.
acm869026	Tree Visualisation and Navigation Clues for Information Visualisation	acm869026	Centre for Mathematics and Computer Science Technical Report INS-R9806		null	tree visualization, information visualization, clustering	3	P117429	1998	0	Information visualisation very often requires good navigation aids on large trees, which represent the underlying abstract information. Using trees for information visualisation requires novel user interface techniques, visual clues, and navigational aids. This paper describes a visual clue for trees as well as an automatic folding (clustering) technique, both based on some mathematical concepts and results in combinatorics. Examples are shown how these techniques can be used, and what the further challenges in this area are.
acm891481	Performance Factors for Superscalar Processors	acm892623	Stanford University Technical Report CSL-TR-95-661		null	superscalar processors, dynamic scheduling, MXS	2	P131687	1995	0	This paper introduces three performance factors for dynamically scheduled superscalar processors. These factors, availability, efficiency, and utility, are then used to explain the variations in performance that occur with different processor and memory system features. The processor features that are investigated are branch prediction depth and following multiple branch paths. The memory system features that are investigated are cache size, associativity, miss penalty, and memory bus bandwidth. Dynamic scheduling with appropriate levels of bus bandwidth and branch prediction is shown to be remarkably effective at achieving good performance over a range of differing application types and over a range of cache miss rates. These results were obtained using a new simulation environment, MXS, which directly executes the benchmarks.
acm892623	Using Complete Machine Simulation to Understand Computer System Behavior	acm892623	Stanford University Technical Report CS-TR-98-1603		null	complete machine simulation	1	P595681	1998	0	This dissertation describes complete machine simulation, a novel approach to understanding the behavior of modern computer systems. Complete machine simulation models all of the hardware found in modern computer systems, allowing it to investigate the behavior of highly configurable machines running commercial operating systems and important workloads such as database and web servers. Complete machine simulation extends the applicability of traditional machine simulation techniques by addressing speed and data organization challenges. To achieve the speed needed to investigate long-running workloads, complete machine simulation allows an investigator to dynamically adjust the characteristics of its hardware simulation. An investigator can select a high-speed, low-detail simulation setting to quickly pass through uninteresting portions of a workload''s execution. Once the workload has reached a more interesting execution state, an investigator can switch to slower, more detailed simulation to obtain behavioral information. To efficiently organize low-level hardware simulation data into more useful information, complete machine simulation provides several mechanisms that incorporate higher-level workload knowledge into the data management process. These mechanisms are efficient and further improve simulation speed by customizing all data collection and reporting to the specific needs of an investigation.
acm893936	Tioga-2: A Direct Manipulation Database Visualization Environment	acm893936	University of California at Berkeley Technical Report S2K-95-64		null	direct manipulation, database visualization	4	P13911	1995	0	null
acm894742	A Browser for Directed Graphs	acm894742	University of California at Berkeley Technical Report CSD-86-292		null	graph layout, graph browser, directed graphs	6	P169793	1986	0	A general-purpose browser for directed graphs is described. The browser provides operations to examine and edit graphs. An operation is also provided to generate a layout for a graph automatically that minimizes edge crossings. Two layout algorithms were implemented. A hierarchical graph layout algorithm was found to be best for directed graphs. The graph browser also has facilities that allow it to be integrated with other applications (e.g., a program browser or a database design tool). These facilities and our experiences building a program call-graph browser are described.
acm896281	Drawing Trees Nicely with TeX	acm896281	Albert-Ludwigs University at Freiburg Technical Report report00014		null	drawing trees, TeX	2	P596917	1988	0	Various algorithms have been proposed for the difficult problem of producing aesthetically pleasing drawings of trees, see Reingold and Tilford (1981), Wetherell and Shannon (1979) but implementations only exist as ``special purpose software", designed for special environments. Therefore, many users resort to the drawing facilites available on most personal computers, but the figures obtained in this way still look ``hand-drawn"; their quality is inferior to the quality of the surrounding text that can be realized by today''s high quality text processing systems. In this paper we present an entirely new solution that integrates a tree drawing algorithm into one of the best text processing systems available. More precisely, we present a TeX macro package TreeTeX that produces a drawing of a tree from a purely logical description. Our approach has three advantages. First, labels for nodes can be handled in a reasonable way. On the one hand, the tree drawing algorithm can compute the widths of the labels and take them into account for the positioning of the nodes; on the other hand, all the textual parts of the document can be treated uniformly. Second, TreeTeX can be trivially ported to any site running TeX. Finally, modularity in the description of a tree and TeX''s macro capabilities allow for libraries of subtrees and tree classes. In addition, we have implemented an option that produces drawing which make the {\em structure\/} of the trees more obvious to the human eye, even though they may not be as aesthetically pleasing.
acm91412	Visualizing n-dimensional virtual worlds with n-vision	acm91385	Symposium on Interactive 3D Graphics: Proceedings of the 1990 symposium on Interactive 3D graphics: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 24 , Issue 2 (March 1990)	37	38	null	2	P253376	1990	0	null
acm92489	Presenting a graphical network: a comparison of performance using fisheye and scrolling views	acm92449	Proceedings of the third international conference on human-computer interaction on Designing and using human-computer interfaces and knowledge based systems (2nd ed.)	313	320	null	4	P123644	1989	0	null
acm93885	Local shading analysis	acm93871	Mit Press Series Of Artificial Intelligence Series: Shape from shading	443	487	null	1	P13809	1989	0	null
acm948480	Algorithm animation over the World Wide Web	acm948449	AVI: Proceedings of the workshop on Advanced visual interfaces	203	212	Mocha, algorithm animation, hypertext narratives	4	P131625	1996	21	In this paper we propose a new model, called Mocha, for providing algorithm animation over the World Wide Web. Mocha is a distributed model with a client-server architecture that optimally partitions the software components of a typical algorithm animation system, and leverages the power of the Java language, an emerging standard for distributing interactive platform-independent applications across the Web.Mocha provides high levels of security, protects the algorithm code, places a light communication load on the Internet, and allows users with limited computing resources to access animations of computationally expensive algorithms. The user interface combines fast responsiveness and user friendliness with the powerful authoring capabilities of hypertext narratives.We describe the architecture of Mocha and show its advantages over previous methods for algorithm animation over the Internet. We also present a prototype of an animation system for geometric algorithms that can be accessed by any user with a WWW browser supporting Java (currently Netscape 2.0 and HotJava) at URL http://www.cs.brown.edu/people/jib/Mocha.html.
acm948505	Constant information density in zoomable interfaces	acm948496	AVI: Proceedings of the working conference on Advanced visual interfaces	57	65	clutter, information density, information navigation, interactive graphics, visual interfaces, visualization, zoomable interfaces	3	P15550	1998	13	We introduce a system that helps users construct interactive visualizations with constant information density. This work is an extension of the DataSplash database visulaization environment. DataSplash is a direct manipulation system in which users can construct and navigate visualizations. Objects' appearances change as users zoom closer to or further away from the visualization. Users specify graphically the point at which these changes occur.Our experience with DataSplash indicates that users find it difficult to construct visualizations that display an appropriate amount of detail. In this paper, we introduce an extension to DataSplash based on the Principle of Constant Information Density. This extension gives users feedback about the density of visualizations as they create them. We also introduce an extension that suggests improvements to existing visualizations.We have performed an informal study of user navigation in applications with and without constant information density. We suggest that designers take density into account when designing applications to avoid biasing user navigation in unexpected ways.
acm949534	FAST a multi-processed environment for visualization of computational fluid dynamics	acm949531	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 1st conference on Visualization '90	14	27	flow analysis, fluid mechanics, computational fluid dynamics	6	P643582	1990	6	Three-dimensional, unsteady, multi-zoned fluid dynamics simulations over full scale aircraft is typical of problems being computed at NASA Ames' Numerical Aerodynamic Simulation (NAS) facility on CRAY2 and CRAY-YMP supercomputers. With multiple processor workstations available in the 10-30 Mflop range, we feel that these new developments in scientific computing warrant a new approach to the design and implementation of analysis tools. These larger, more complex problems create a need for new visualization techniques not possible with the existing software or systems available as of this writing and these visualization techniques will change as the supercomputing environment, and hence the scientific methods employed, evolve even further.Visualization of computational aerodynamics requires flexible, extensible, and adaptable software tools for performing analysis tasks. Flexible means the ability to handle a diverse range of problems. Extensible means the ability to interact at all levels of the software hierarchy, either through existing built-in functionality or through the implementation of custom "plug-in" modules. Adaptable means the ability to adapt to new software and hardware configurations through the use of modular structured programming methods, a graphics library standard, and the use of common network communication protocols (like UNIX sockets) for the distribution of processing.This paper discusses FAST (Flow Analysis Software Toolkit), an implementation of a software system for fluid mechanics analysis that is based on this approach.
acm949553	A problem-oriented classification of visualization techniques	acm949531	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 1st conference on Visualization '90	139	143	scientific visualization, visualization techniques	2	P643612	1990	3	Progress in scientific visualization could be accelerated if workers could more readily find visualization techniques relevant to a given problem. This paper describes an approach to this problem based on a classification of visualization techniques that is independent of particular application domains. A user breaks up a problem into subproblems, describes these subproblems in terms of the objects to be represented and the operations to be supported by a representation, locates applicable visualization techniques in a catalog, and combines these representation into a composite representation for the original problem. The catalog and its underlying classification provide a way for workers in different application disciplines to share methods.
acm949569	Shape coding of multidimensional data on a microcomputer display	acm949531	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 1st conference on Visualization '90	238	246	higher dimensional data sets, pattern discovery	1	P643590	1990	0	The visual representation of data from complex systems, whether databases, measured scientific data, or simulation output, holds the promise of discovering patterns in the data that will increase its management efficiency while revealing relationships invisible to numeric methods. In this paper we present a simple and flexible method of shape coding for higher dimensional data sets that allows the database operator or discipline scientist quick access to promising patterns within and among records or samples. The example used is a thirteen parameter set of solar wind, magnetosphere, and ground observation data collected hourly for twenty-one days in 1976.
acm949571	Visualizing a scalar field on an N-dimensional lattice	acm949531	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 1st conference on Visualization '90	255	262	computer graphics, graph theory, lattice, scatter field visualization	4	P643562	1990	0	The authors address the problem of visualizing a scalar dependent variable which is a function of many independent variables. In particular, cases where the number of independent variables is three or greater are discussed. A new hierarchical method of plotting that allows one to interactively view millions of data points with up to 10 independent variables is presented. The technique is confined to the case where each independent variable is sampled in a regular grid or lattice-like fashion, i.e., in equal increments. The proposed technique can be described in either an active or a passive manner. In the active view the points of the N-dimensional independent variables lattice are mapped to a single horizontal axis in a hierarchical manner, while in the passive view an observer samples the points of the N -dimensional lattice in a prescribed fashion and notes the values of the dependent variable. In the passive view a plot of the dependent variable versus a single parametric variable, which is simply the sampling number, forms the multidimensional graph.
acm949588	Parallel coordinates a tool for visualizing multi-dimensional geometry	acm949531	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 1st conference on Visualization '90	361	378	Multi-Dimensional Geometry, Parallel Coordinates, Statistical Graphics, Visualization	2	P14716	1990	3	A methodology for visualizing analytic and synthetic geometry in R^N is presented. It is based on a system of parallel coordinates which induces a nonprojective mapping between N-dimensional and two-dimensional sets. Hypersurfaces are represented by their planar images which have some geometrical properties analogous to the properties of the hypersurface that they represent. A pointline duality when N=2 generalizes to lines and hyperplanes enabling the representation of polyhedra in R^N. The representation of a class of convex and non-convex hypersurfaces is discussed, together with an algorithm for constructing and displaying any interior point. The display shows some local properties of the hypersurface and provides information on the point's proximity to the boundary. Applications are discussed.
acm949614	A tool for visualizing the topology of three-dimensional vector fields	acm949607	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 2nd conference on Visualization '91	33	40	null	3	P643517	1991	3	A description is given of a software system, TOPO, taht numerically analyzes and graphically displays topological aspects of a three-dimensional vector field, v, to produce a single, relatively simple picture that characterizes v. The topology of v considered consists of its critical points (where v = 0), their invariant manifolds, and the intergral curves connecting these invariant manifolds. The field in the neighborhood of each critical point is approximated by the Taylor expansion. The coefficients of the first nonzero term fo the taylor expansion around a critical point are the 3x3 matrix delta-v. Critical ppoints are classified by examining delta-v's eigenvalues. The eigenvectors of delta-v span the invariant manifolds of the linearized field around a critical point. Curves integrated from initial points on the eigen vectors a small distance from the critical point connect with other critical points (or the boundary) to complete the topology. One class of critical surfaces that is important in computational fluid dynamics is analyzed.
acm949633	Interactive data visualization using focusing and linking	acm949607	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 2nd conference on Visualization '91	156	163	graphical data analysis methods, geographic information system, interactive data visualization, time series analysis	4	P17277	1991	8	Two basic principles for interactive visualization of high-dimensional data-focusing and linking-are discussed. Focusing techniques may involve selecting subsets, dimension reduction, or some more general manipulation of the layout information on the page or screen. A consequent of focusing is that each view only conveys partial information about the data and needs to be linked so that the information contained in individual views can be integrated into a coherent image of the data as a whole. Examples are given of how graphical data analysis methods based on focusing and linking are used in applications including linguistics, geographic information systems, time series analysis, and the analysis of multi-channel images arising in radiology and remote sensing.
acm949654	Tree-Maps a space-filling approach to the visualization of hierarchical information structures	acm949607	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 2nd conference on Visualization '91	284	291	computer graphics, data analysis, display space, hierarchical information structures, tree-map visualization technique.	2	P32711	1991	14	A method for visualizing hierarchically structured information is described. The tree-map visualization technique makes 100% use of the available display space, mapping the full hierarchy onto a rectangular region in a space-filling manner. This efficient use of space allows very large hierarchies to be displayed in their entirety and facilitates the presentation of semantic information. Tree-maps can depict both the structure and content of the hierarchy. However, the approach is best suited to hierarchies in which the content of the leaf nodes and the structure of the hierarchy are of primary importance, and the content information associated with internal nodes is largely derived from their children.
acm949711	Improving the visualization of hierarchies with treemaps design issues and experimentation	acm949685	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 3rd conference on Visualization '92	124	131	computer animation, data visualization, tree data structures, trees, hierarchy display, small multiple displays	2	P64168	1992	11	ontrolled experiments with novice treemap users and real data highlight the strengths of treemaps and provide direction for improvement. Issues discussed include experimental results, layout algorithms, nesting offsets, labeling, animation, and small multiple displays. Treemaps prove to be a potent tool for hierarchy display. The principles discussed are applicable to many information visualization situations.
acm949724	Visualizing code profiling line oriented statistics	acm949685	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 3rd conference on Visualization '92	210	217	data visualization, visual programming	2	P268230	1992	6	A visualization technique that makes it possible to display and analyze line count profile data is described. The technique is to make a reduced picture of code with the line execution counts identified with color. Hot spots are shown in red, warm spots in orange, and so on. It is possible to identify nonexecuted code and nonexecutable code such as declarations and static tables.
acm949734	Visualization for the document space	acm949685	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 3rd conference on Visualization '92	274	281	document handling, information retrieval, self-organizing feature maps, Kohonen feature map, browsing, document space 	1	P301689	1992	8	An information retrieval frame work that promotes graphical displays, and that will make documents in the computer visualizable to the searcher, is described. As examples of such graphical displays, two simulation results of using a Kohonen feature map to generate map displays for information retrieval are presented and discussed. The map displays are a mapping from a high-dimensional document space to a two-dimensional space. They show document relationships by various visual cues, such as dots, links, clusters, and areas, as well as their measurement and spatial arrangement. Using the map displays as an interface for document retrieval systems, the user is provided with richer visual information to support browsing and searching.
acm949893	Texture splats for 3D scalar and vector field visualization	acm949845	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 4th conference on Visualization '93	261	266	D scalar field visualisation, 3D signals, 3D vector field visualization, image reconstruction, image texture, splatting, volume visualization, data visualization, volume rendering.	2	P247805	1993	4	Volume visualization is becoming an important tool for understanding large 3D data sets. A popular technique for volume rendering is known as splatting. With new hardware architectures offering substantial improvements in the performance of rendering texture mapped objects, we present textured splats. An ideal reconstruction function for 3D signals is developed which can be used as a texture map for a splat. Extensions to the basic splatting technique are then developed to additionally represent vector fields.
acm949901	Computer visualization of long genomic sequences	acm949845	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the 4th conference on Visualization '93	308	315	biology computing, computer visualization, global genomic information content, data visualization, subsequences visual models.	5	P605971	1993	3	Human beings find it difficult to analyze local and global oligonucleotide patterns in the linear primary sequences of a genome. In this paper, we present a family of iterated function systems (IFS) that can be used to generate a set of visual models of a DNA sequence. A new visualization function, the W-curve, that is derived from this IFS family is introduced. Using W-curves, a user can readily compare subsequences within a long genomic sequence - or between genomic sequences - and can visually evaluate the effect of local variations (mutations) upon the global genomic information content.
acm951144	A lattice model for data display	acm951087	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the conference on Visualization '94	310	317	complex information processing, data display, data objects, data visualization, lattice isomorphisms, lattice model	3	P299190	1994	9	n order to develop a foundation for visualization, we develop lattice models for data objects and displays that focus on the fact that data objects are approximations to mathematical objects and real displays are approximations to ideal displays. These lattice models give us a way to quantize the information content of data and displays and to define conditions on the visualization mappings from data to displays. Mappings satisfy these conditions if and only if they are lattice isomorphisms. We show how to apply this result to scientific data and display models, and discuss how it might be applied to recursively defined data types appropriate for complex information processing.
acm951146	XmdvTool integrating multiple methods for visualizing multivariate data	acm951087	IEEE Visualization: Proceedings of the conference on Visualization '94	326	333	n-dimensional brush, data visualization, physical phenomena, integral multiple methods, multivariate data, spatial relationships	1	P194710	1994	6	Much of the attention in visualization research has focussed on data rooted in physical phenomena, which is generally limited to three or four dimensions. However, many sources of data do not share this dimensional restriction. A critical problem in the analysis of such data is providing researchers with tools to gain insights into characteristics of the data, such as anomalies and patterns. Several visualization methods have been developed to address this problem, and each has its strengths and weaknesses. This paper describes a system named XmdvTool which integrates several of the most common methods for projecting multivariate data onto a two-dimensional screen. This integration allows users to explore their data in a variety of formats with ease. A view enhancement mechanism called an N-dimensional brush is also described. The brush allows users to gain insights into spatial relationships over N dimensions by highlighting data which falls within a user-specified subspace.
acm951894	CartoDraw A Fast Algorithm for Generating Contiguous Cartograms	acm951847	IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics: Volume 10 , Issue 1 (January 2004): 	95	110	Information visualization, visualization of geo-related information, continuous cartograms, value-by-area cartograms, visualization and cartography.	3	P58960	2004	6	Cartograms are a well-known technique for showing geography-related statistical information, such as population demographics and epidemiological data. The basic idea is to distort a map by resizing its regions according to a statistical parameter, but in a way that keeps the map recognizable. In this study, we formally define a family of cartogram drawing problems. We show that even simple variants are unsolvable in the general case. Because the feasible variants are NP-complete, heuristics are needed to solve the problem. Previously proposed solutions suffer from problems with the quality of the generated drawings. For a cartogram to be recognizable, it is important to preserve the global shape or outline of the input map, a requirement that has been overlooked in the past. To address this, our objective function for cartogram drawing includes both global and local shape preservation. To measure the degree of shape preservation, we propose a shape similarity function, which is based on a Fourier transformation of the polygons curvatures. Also, our application is visualization of dynamic data, for which we need an algorithm that recalculates a cartogram in a few seconds. None of the previous algorithms provides adequate performance with an acceptable level of quality for this application. In this paper, we therefore propose an efficient iterative scanline algorithm to reposition edges while preserving local and global shapes. Scanlines may be generated automatically or entered interactively to guide the optimization process more closely. We apply our algorithm to several example data sets and provide a detailed comparison of the two variants of our algorithm and previous approaches. 
acm97273	Data characterization for intelligent graphics presentation	acm97243	Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems Empowering people	193	200	Interaction Techniques, Models and Principles, Graphics Editors, Document and Text Processing	2	P270271	1990	7	An automatic presentation system is an intelligent interface component which receives information from a user or application program and designs a combination of graphics and text that effectively conveys it. It is a facility that assumes the presentation responsibilities for other programs. An important research question has been how information should be specified or described by an application program for it to be presented by an automatic presenter. This paper proposes a taxonomy of information characteristics which would need to be provided to either human or computer designers for them to create presentations reflecting the individual needs of a diverse group of users. The proposed taxonomy of characteristics defines the representational goals for intelligent interfaces which reason about graphical displays.
acm97898	Rapid controlled movement through a virtual 3D workspace	acm97879	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 17th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 24 , Issue 4 (August 1990)	171	176	Interaction Techniques, User Interfaces, Viewpoint movement, object movement, virtual reality, interactive graphics, 3D graphics, logarithmic motion, 3D workspaces.	3	P141917	1990	11	Computer graphics hardware supporting real-time interactive 3D animation has the potential to support effective user interfaces by enabling virtual 3D workspaces. However, this potential requires development of viewpoint movement techniques that support rapid and controlled movement through workspaces. Rapid movement through large distances avoids wasted work time; controlled movement near taget objects allows the user to examine and interact with objects in the workspace. Current techiques for viewpoint movement typically use high velocities to cover distances rapidly, but high velocities are hard to control near objects. This paper describes a new technique for targeted viewpoint movement that solves this problem. The key idea is to have the user indicate a point of interest (target) on a 3D object and use the distance to this target to move the viewpoint logarithmically, by moving the same relative percentage of distance to the target on every animation cycle. The result is rapid motion over distances that slows as the viewpoint approaches the target object. The technique can be used with 2D and multidimensional input devices. We also extend the technique to move objects in the workspace.
acm97919	Footprint evaluation for volume rendering	acm97879	International Conference on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques: Proceedings of the 17th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques: ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics: Volume 24 , Issue 4 (August 1990)	367	376	D Image, Volume Rendering, Reconstruction, Algorithms	1	P170179	1990	9	This paper presents a forward mapping rendering algorithm to display regular volumetric grids that may not have the same spacings in the three grid directions. It takes advantage of the fact that confolution can be thought of as distributing energy from input samples into space. The renderer calculates an image plane footprint for each data sample and uses the footprint to spread the sample's energy onto the image plane. A result of the technique is that the forward mapping algorithm can support perspective without excessive cost, and support adaptive resampling of the three-dimensional data set during image generation.
acm97933	Worlds within worlds: metaphors for exploring n-dimensional virtual worlds	acm97924	Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology: Proceedings of the 3rd annual ACM SIGGRAPH symposium on User interface software and technology	76	83	User interfaces, hierarchy and geometric transformations, interaction techniques	2	P253376	1990	12	n-Vision's software architecture supports a hierarchy of arbitrarily transformed, nested boxes that defines an interactive space within which information is displayed and input obtained. Our design, modeled in part after the hierarchical 2D windows of the X Window System, is intended to provide an environment that is well suited to the use of true 3D input and stereo display devices. Boxes are associated with event handlers that support 3D motion, enter, and leave events, and provide recognition of finger gestures.
acm97975	Painting multiple views of complex objects	acm97945	Conference on Object Oriented Programming Systems Languages and Applications: Proceedings of the European conference on object-oriented programming on Object-oriented programming systems, languages, and applications: ACM SIGPLAN Notices: Volume 25 , Issue 10 (October 1990)	245	257	direct manipulation interface, exploratory data analysis	3	P145051	1990	11	This paper reviews and illustrates a direct manipulation approach to visualization of complex objects called painting multiple views. We describe a programming model for direct manipulation in general and for painting in particular, based on simple constraints between entities in an the underlying scientific database and the components of displays used to examine the data. With this model, the original notion of "brushing scatterplots" is easily extended.
acm98599	Computing the minimum Hausdorff distance for point sets under translation	acm98524	Annual Symposium on Computational Geometry: Proceedings of the sixth annual symposium on Computational geometry	340	349	Geometrical Problems and Computations, Pattern Matching	2	P58912	1990	5	We consider the problem of computing a translation that minimizes the Hausdorff distance between two sets of points. For points in R1 in the worst case there are O(mn) translations at which the Hausdorff distance is a local minimum, where m is the number of points in one set and n is the number in the other. For points in R2 there are O(mn(m + n)) such local minima. We show how to compute the minimal Hausdorff distance in time O(mn log mn) for points in R1 and in time O(m2n2) A(mn)) for points in R2. The results for the one-dimensional case are applied to the problem of comparing polygons under general affine transformations, where we extend the recent results of Arkin et al on polygon resemblance under rigid body motion. The two-dimensional case is closely related to the problem of finding an approximate congruence between two points sets under translation in the plane, as considered by Alt et al.
acm99361	A visual calendar for scheduling group meetings	acm99332	Computer Supported Cooperative Work: Proceedings of the 1990 ACM conference on Computer-supported cooperative work	279	290	Human Factors, Human Information Processing, Information Systems Applications	6	P60561	1990	8	A controlled experiment comparing automatic scheduling with VS to manual scheduling demonstrated the former to be faster and less error prone. A field study conducted over six weeks at the UNC-CH Computer Science Department showed VS to be a generally useful system and provided valuable feedback on ways to enhance the functionality of the system to increase its value as a groupwork tool. In particular, users found priority-based time-slots and access to scheduling decision reasoning advantageous. VS has been in use by more than 75 faculty, staff, and graduate students since Fall 1987.
